Picture_ID,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
SK-A-23.jpg,Figures,Old Scholar / Philosopher,"A balding, white-bearded man in dark, heavy robes. He is slumped over, head resting on his left hand in a state of deep sleep.",Center (Focal Point); seated behind the table.
SK-A-23.jpg,Furniture,Heavy Armchair,"A large, dark-cushioned or wooden chair that supports the sleeping figure.",Center; mostly obscured by the figure’s robes.
SK-A-23.jpg,Furniture,Study Table,"Covered with a heavy, textured tablecloth that reaches the floor.",Left Foreground / Midground; positioned in front of the window.
SK-A-23.jpg,Furniture,Stool / Bench,"A simple wooden four-legged stool, appearing humble and functional.",Left Foreground; tucked under or beside the table.
SK-A-23.jpg,Architecture,Window (Lead-Cased),"A tall, narrow window with multiple small panes, allowing a soft ""raking light"" to illuminate the desk.",Far Left; upper wall.
SK-A-23.jpg,Architecture,Bookcase / Shelving,"A large, floor-to-ceiling wooden cupboard or shelf filled with numerous volumes.",Background; spanning across the center and right wall.
SK-A-23.jpg,Architecture,Doorway,"A simple, dark wooden door frame leading to another part of the dwelling.",Far Right Background.
SK-A-23.jpg,Scholar’s Tools,Open Manuscript,"Large, thick pages of an open book catching the primary light source from the window.",On the Table; left side.
SK-A-23.jpg,Scholar’s Tools,Piles of Books,"Multiple thick, leather-bound or vellum volumes stacked haphazardly, suggesting long hours of study.","On the Table; right side, near the scholar."
SK-A-23.jpg,Scholar’s Tools,Loose Papers / Slips,Scraps of paper or bookmarks protruding from books and scattered on the desk.,On the Table; interspersed with the books.
SK-A-23.jpg,Personal Items,Traveler’s Bag / Satchel,A dark leather pouch or satchel hanging from a hook on the wall.,Far Left Wall; hanging next to the window.
SK-A-23.jpg,Personal Items,Hourglass,A faint silhouette of a time-keeping device (symbolizing the passage of time/Vanitas).,Background; likely on a shelf in the niche.
SK-A-23.jpg,Personal Items,Glass Bottle / Carafe,A dark glass vessel standing alone.,Top of the Bookcase; upper left corner.
SK-A-23.jpg,Structure,Ceiling Beams,"Heavy, dark wooden structural beams characteristic of 17th-century Dutch interiors.",Top of Canvas; spanning the ceiling.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Crying Boy,"A young boy rubbing his eye; he has received a birch rod (symbol of being ""naughty"") instead of toys.","Mid-left, standing."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Mother/Woman,"A woman in a white apron and brown bodice pointing at the crying boy, holding a birch rod.","Left of center, leaning toward the boy."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Seated Woman,"A woman in a vibrant red jacket with white fur trim and a gold skirt, gesturing toward the children.","Lower right, seated."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Seated Patriarch,"An older man in dark robes and a skullcap (kalot), observing the scene.","Center-right, seated behind the table."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Toddler/Child,"A small child in a dark hat and decorative dress holding an object, looking toward the viewer.","Lower center, foreground."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Figures,Young Girl,"A girl sitting on the floor holding a ""Sinterklaas"" doll or festive treat.",Bottom left corner.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Furniture,Dining Table,Covered with a dark cloth and a white linen topper; holds a bowl of fruit.,Center.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Furniture,Box Bed (Bedstee),A traditional built-in wooden bed partially obscured by dark curtains.,Far left background.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Holiday Items,Birch Rod (Roe),"A bundle of twigs used as a symbolic ""gift"" for naughty children.",Held by the mother and tucked near the crying boy.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Holiday Items,Saint Nicholas Doll,A figure made of speculaas (gingerbread) or a doll representing the Saint.,Held by the girl in the lower left.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Food & Drink,Bowl of Fruit,A mound of apples and grapes sitting on the table.,"Center, on the table."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Apparel,Wide-brimmed Hat,A black felt hat lying discarded on the floor.,Lower left-center floor.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Apparel,Tobacco Pipe,A long-stemmed white clay pipe being used by a figure in the background.,Top right.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Architecture,Leaded Window,A window with small diamond-shaped or rectangular panes common in 17th-century Dutch homes.,Left background.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Household Items,Kolf Club & Ball,"A wooden stick and ball used for ""kolf"" (an early Dutch game similar to golf/hockey).","Bottom right corner, leaning on a basket."
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Household Items,Wicker Basket,"A large woven basket, likely used for storage or carrying laundry/supplies.",Far bottom right.
"SK-A-54.jpg
",Decor,Wall Hanging/Map,"A large, dark rectangular frame on the wall, possibly a landscape painting or map.",Upper right background.
SK-A-60.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Standing Fisherman,"A middle-aged man with a white beard, wearing a black broad-brimmed hat, dark doublet, and breeches with white collar. He carries the tools of his trade.","Standing on the left side, facing toward the right."
,Figures,Seated Craftsman,"An elderly man with a long white beard, wearing a dark skullcap (calotte) and a brown vest over a white-collared shirt. He pauses his work to interact with the visitor.","Seated on the right side, facing toward the left."
,Fishing Gear,Fishing Rod/Pole,"A long, light-colored wooden pole, likely a bamboo or reed fishing rod, held diagonally over the shoulder.","Held by the fisherman on the left, extending toward the top left corner."
,Fishing Gear,Woven Basket,"A rounded, deep-brown wicker basket with a sturdy handle, used for carrying the day's catch.","Carried by the fisherman in his right hand, at the lower left."
,Fishing Gear,Bait Box/Tackle Box,"A small, rectangular wooden box suspended from a leather strap across the chest.",Hanging at the fisherman's waist/hip area.
,Machinery,Spinning Wheel,"A large wooden wheel with multiple spokes, part of a manual textile-making apparatus.","Located in the lower center, between the two men."
,Textile Tools,Yarn Winder (Swift),A vertical wooden frame (skein winder) used to hold and rotate yarn. It is partially loaded with white thread.,"Positioned at the bottom right, in front of the seated man."
,Vessels,Westerwald Jug,"A grey stoneware jug with blue salt-glaze decorations (likely a ""Baardman"" or Bellarmine style), held by the handle.","Held by the seated craftsman in his left hand, center-right."
,Architecture,Dutch Door,"A ""stable door"" split horizontally; the top half is open, revealing a hazy, atmospheric landscape outside.","On the far left wall, behind the fisherman."
,Clothing,Hanging Cloak/Coat,"A dark, heavy fabric garment (likely a cloak or overcoat) draped on the wall.",Hanging on the back wall in the center-right background.
,Furniture,Wooden Stool/Bench,"A simple, rustic three-legged stool or bench supporting the spinning mechanism.","At the bottom center/right, under the spinning wheel."
"SK-A-61.jpg
",Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furnishings,Wooden Chairs,"Two simple, dark wooden chairs with ladder-back designs. One is occupied by the man on the left, the other by the man on the right.",Lower-center and lower-right
,Furnishings,Small Wooden Stool,"A low, light-colored wooden stool or side table used to hold smoking accessories.","Lower-center, between the two men"
,Architectural,Fireplace / Hearth,"A large, open stone fireplace with a prominent mantelpiece and a burning wood fire.",Left background
,Architectural,Chalkboard / Slate,"A dark rectangular board with faint white markings, likely used for keeping tabs on drink orders.","Center background, on the wall"
,Architectural,Ceiling Beams,"Heavy, dark wooden structural beams supporting the ceiling of the inn.",Upper background
,Containers,Stoneware Jug (Baardman),"A bulbous, tan-colored ceramic jug with a narrow neck, held by the man on the left.","Lower-left, held by the seated man"
,Containers,Drinking Bowl / Cup,A shallow wooden or ceramic bowl held with both hands by the seated man on the right.,"Lower-right, in the man's hands"
,Smoking Tools,Gouda Pipes (Clay),Long-stemmed white clay tobacco pipes. One is being smoked; others lie broken or resting on the floor and stool.,Center foreground (floor) and held by the man on the right
,Smoking Tools,Tobacco Box,"A small, dark rectangular box (likely tin or wood) sitting on the stool, used for storing tobacco.","On the stool, center-right"
,Personal Items,Broad-brimmed Hats,"Two black, wide-brimmed felt hats. One is held in the man's lap, the other is worn by the smoker.",Center (lap) and right (head)
,Apparel,White Falling Collar,"A crisp, white flat linen collar typical of 17th-century Dutch attire.","Center, worn by the man on the left"
,Apparel,Stockings and Shoes,Light-colored stockings and dark leather shoes with simple ties or buckles.,Bottom edge of the painting
,Fuel,Log Fire,Glowing embers and burning wooden logs providing light and warmth to the scene.,"Lower-left, within the hearth"
SK-A-62.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Older Child,"Depicted wearing a brown jacket with a prominent white ruffled collar and a wide-brimmed brown hat. He leans over the table with an amused expression, pointing toward the trap.","Foreground, left-center."
,Figures,Younger Child,"Depicted with blonde hair, peeking over the edge of the wooden table. His face is illuminated as he gazes intently at the captured animal.","Midground, right."
,Furniture,Wooden Table/Workbench,"A rustic, dark wooden table with a thick top and visible grain. It serves as the stage for the central action.","Lower half of the painting, extending from center to right."
,Animal Trap,Box Mousetrap,"A rectangular wooden cage trap with thin vertical wire bars. It features a mechanical ""see-saw"" or lever-arm trigger mechanism on top.","Center, resting on the table."
,Animals,Mouse,"A small, dark rodent visible through the wire bars of the wooden cage, indicating a successful catch.","Inside the mousetrap, center."
,Plants,Sprig of Flowers,"A small, delicate sprig with yellow/white blossoms and green leaves, lying flat on the table surface.","Foreground, lower right on the tabletop."
,Clothing,Ruffled Collar (Cravat),"A bright white, multi-layered fabric collar that contrasts sharply against the dark brown tones of the jacket.","Center-left, around the older child's neck."
,Clothing,Wide-brimmed Hat,"A soft brown felt hat with a slightly slumped crown, characteristic of 17th-century Dutch fashion.","Top-left, on the older child's head."
,Architecture,Dark Background,"A murky, indistinct wall or interior space that uses tenebrism (dramatic darks) to make the central figures pop.",Upper half and far-left/right edges.
SK-A-87.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Schoolmaster’s Table,"A heavy wooden table with a worn surface, acting as the central stage for the scholarly activities.","Center, middle ground"
,Furniture,Three-Legged Stool,"A simple, rustic wooden stool positioned near the edge of the scene, currently unoccupied.",Bottom right foreground
,Lighting,Central Candle,"A lit candle in a metal holder, casting a bright, warm glow that serves as the primary light source for the central group.","Center, on the table"
,Lighting,Handheld Candle,"A small candle held by a girl, illuminating her face and the slate of the boy she is assisting.","Middle ground, left side"
,Lighting,Floor Lantern,"A large, metal-framed lantern resting on the floor with its door open, casting light toward the viewer.",Bottom center-right foreground
,Lighting,Wall Lantern,"An unlit wooden or metal lantern hanging on the wall, often interpreted as a symbol of ""ignorance"" yet to be enlightened.",Upper left background
,Human Figures,Schoolmaster,"An older man in a cap, pointing a finger as if giving instructions or a mild admonishment.","Center-left, behind the table"
,Human Figures,Reciting Girl,"A young girl leaning over the table, bathed in candlelight, earnestly reading or reciting from a paper.","Center-right, at the table"
,Human Figures,Student with Slate,"A young boy seated low, focused on a writing slate while receiving light from the girl behind him.",Bottom left foreground
,Human Figures,Background Students,"Several shadowy figures of children sitting at another table, barely visible in the dark.",Right side background
,Scholarly Tools,Writing Slate,"A dark, rectangular slate used by the seated boy for practicing writing or arithmetic.","Bottom left, held by student"
,Scholarly Tools,Hourglass,"A glass timepiece in a wooden frame, symbolizing the passage of time and the ""Vanitas"" theme of fleeting life.","On the table, left of the central candle"
,Scholarly Tools,Paper / Lesson,A single sheet of paper or a thin pamphlet being studied by the central girl.,"Center, on the table"
,Scholarly Tools,Quills / Pens,Small writing instruments tucked into or lying near the schoolmaster's desk box.,"On the table, near the master"
,Textiles,Large Drape,"A heavy, dark red or brown curtain pulled back to ""reveal"" the scene, a classic trompe l'oeil device.","Upper right, framing the top"
,Architecture,Arched Niche,"A dark, recessed architectural feature in the wall, partially obscured by shadows.",Upper left background
SK-A-110.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Isaac,"An elderly, blind man with a long white beard, wearing a blue tunic and a rich red, fur-lined robe. He sits upright in bed, eyes closed, extending his right hand to deliver a blessing.","Right-center, seated in bed."
,Figure,Jacob,"A young man with long brown hair, disguised as his brother Esau. He is wearing a blue and gold striped tunic and goatskin gloves to mimic Esau's hairy hands.","Left-center, leaning toward Isaac."
,Figure,Rebecca,"A woman looking on with a concerned or watchful expression, wearing a dark brown hood and shawl. She is the mastermind behind the deception.","Center-background, behind the bed."
,Furniture,Bed and Bedding,"A large, cushioned bed with heavy white pillows and a thick, reddish-orange blanket or coverlet. Dark curtains frame the bed area.",Spans the center and right side.
,Clothing/Accessory,Goatskin Gloves,"Rough, dark animal-skin coverings worn by Jacob over his hands to deceive his father's sense of touch.","Lower-center, on Jacob's hands."
,Food/Tableware,Dish of Meat,"A silver or pewter platter containing cooked meat (the ""savory meat"" Jacob prepared to impersonate Esau's hunt).","Mid-left, on a side table."
,Furniture,Side Table,"A small table covered with a white cloth, holding the dish of food and other small items.",Far-left background.
,Textile,Bed Curtains,"Dark, heavy drapery that encloses the sleeping area, creating a somber, intimate atmosphere.",Upper-left and top background.
,Accessory,Gold Chain,"A thin gold chain or sash draped across Jacob's chest, signifying his status or the fine clothes of Esau he has borrowed.","Left-center, on Jacob's torso."
,Accessory,Headwear,"Isaac wears a dark, simple skullcap, while Rebecca is covered in a traditional dark hood.",On the heads of the right and background figures.
SK-A-261.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Young Woman (The Writer),"Depicted with a focused expression, wearing a white linen head covering and a shimmering, heavy brownish-gold or bronze-colored silk/velvet gown with voluminous sleeves.","Right-center foreground, leaning over the table."
,Figures,Page/Servant Boy,"A young male figure with long brown hair, dressed in a dark green doublet with a white cravat. He watches the woman intently, waiting to deliver the letter.","Background, to the left of the woman."
,Furniture,Writing Table,"A table covered with a heavy, dark reddish-purple velvet cloth that hangs in deep, lustrous folds.","Foreground, extending from left to center."
,Furniture,Green Footstool (Cushion),"A plush, rectangular green velvet cushion or footstool with tufted edges.","Bottom-left corner, on the floor."
,Animals,Sleeping Spaniel,A small brown-and-white King Charles-style spaniel curled up and sleeping soundly.,Resting atop the green cushion in the bottom-left.
,Musical Instruments,Lute,"A wooden stringed instrument with a rounded, ribbed back and a bent neck, partially covered by the table's velvet cloth.","Middle-ground, on the left side of the table."
,Writing Tools,Quill Pen,"A long, white feathered quill held in the woman's right hand as she writes.","Center, held by the woman over the paper."
,Writing Tools,Inkwell & Pen Case,"A small, dark (likely pewter or silver) inkwell set and a cylindrical container for pens.","On the table, just above the sheet of paper."
,Stationery,Letter/Paper,A single white sheet of paper with visible lines of cursive script being actively written upon.,"Center, on the table surface."
,Architecture,Arched Doorway/Alcove,"A dark, shadowy architectural opening revealing a glimpse of a lighter, pillared room or hallway beyond.","Background, upper-right quadrant."
,Architecture,Wall/Dark Interior,"A very dark, near-black interior wall that provides high contrast for the illuminated figures.",Filling the entire background behind the figures.
SK-A-262.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Musical Instrument,Cittern (often identified as a Lute),"A wire-stringed instrument with a flat back and a distinctively long, thin neck ending in a series of tuning pegs. The lady's hands are positioned to adjust the tension of the strings.","Held by the central figure, angled diagonally across her torso."
,Human Figure,Young Lady,"A woman with pale skin and light-colored hair pulled back. She has a soft, focused expression, illuminated warmly by the candle. She wears a large drop-pearl earring.","Seated centrally, slightly right of the vertical axis, facing left."
,Clothing,Satin Dress / Wrap,"A luxurious garment with deep orange and reddish-pink stripes. The fabric has a high sheen, reflecting the orange-yellow glow of the candlelight in sharp highlights.",Covering the woman’s torso and lower body; draping over the table.
,Clothing,White Chemise Sleeve,"A voluminous, ruffled white undergarment sleeve visible at the woman's forearm. The folds are heavy with shadow and bright highlights.","Centered, just above the table surface."
,Furniture,Wooden Table,"A dark, polished flat surface that acts as a staging ground for the objects and reflects the light of the candle.","Foreground, extending from the right side toward the center."
,Light Source,Lit Candle,"A tall, slender beeswax or tallow candle placed in a metal holder. The flame is small but bright, casting a warm halo and long shadows.","Mid-ground, right side, positioned just behind the book."
,Accessory,Candlestick Holder,A dark metal (likely brass or bronze) holder with a wide base to catch dripping wax.,"On the table, right-hand side."
,Literature,Open Music Book,"A thick volume of paper or parchment with its pages slightly curled, suggesting frequent use. The text/musical notation is illegible in the dim light.","On the table, directly in front of the woman."
,Interior Element,Green Curtain / Drapery,"Heavy fabric draped at the top and side of the frame, framing the scene and adding to the intimate, secluded atmosphere.",Top-right corner and right edge of the frame.
,Interior Element,Arched Doorway / Opening,"A architectural curve leading into a secondary, darker room.","Background, top-left quadrant."
,Human Figures,Distant Figures (Card Players),"A group of approximately three individuals gathered around a small table, barely visible in the deep shadows of the background. They appear to be engaged in a social activity.","Far background, left side, viewed through the doorway."
,Jewelry,Pearl Earring,"A single, large teardrop-shaped pearl that catches a distinct ""dot"" of reflection from the candle flame.",On the woman’s visible (left) ear.
SK-A-270.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Mooi Aal (Young Woman),A simple young woman wearing a black bodice with red cuffs and a white apron. She is turning away from the elderly man.,"Center-left, standing."
,Figure,Young Suitor,"A smiling young man with a distinctive dark, textured cap (possibly lambskin). He embraces Aal, pulling her toward him.","Far left, leaning inward."
,Figure,Elegant Young Man,"A refined man wearing a large black hat and a lace collar. He watches the scene, holding a wine glass.","Center-back, behind the others."
,Figure,Elderly Suitor,"An old man with a grey beard, wearing a fur-trimmed robe and a large fur hat. He looks toward Aal with a pleading expression.","Right side, seated."
,Furniture,Table,A wooden table covered with a rich red patterned carpet/tapestry.,Lower right foreground.
,Currency,Gold and Silver Coins,"Piles of loose coins scattered on the table, representing the elderly man's wealth and ""purchase"" of affection.","On top of the table, lower right."
,Container,Money Bag,"A tan or yellow cloth bag held open by the elderly man, containing more wealth.","Held by the old man, center-bottom."
,Glassware,Wine Glass (Roemer/Goblet),"A tall, delicate glass filled with amber liquid (likely wine), held aloft.","Upper right, held by the man in the black hat."
,Weaponry,Knife/Dagger in Sheath,A weapon tucked into the belt of the young man on the left.,"Far left edge, at the young man's waist."
,Clothing Accessory,Fur Hat,"A heavy, ornate fur hat worn by the seated old man.","Top right, on the old man's head."
,Clothing Accessory,Black Broad-brimmed Hat,A wide-brimmed hat typical of 17th-century Dutch fashion.,"Top center, on the background figure."
SK-A-293.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Mother,Dressed in a luxurious blue velvet jacket with white fur trim and a golden satin skirt. She is focused on grooming.,"Center, seated on a chair."
,Figures,Young Boy,"Wearing a dark jacket with white ruffles. He leans his head against his mother’s lap, looking slightly dazed or patient.","Center-right, leaning against the mother."
,Figures,Young Girl,"Standing behind a table, looking into a mirror and sticking her tongue out mischievously at her reflection.","Mid-ground, right side."
,Figures,Maidservant,"A blurred figure holding a tray with a glass or pitcher, entering or standing in an open doorway.","Background, far left."
,Furniture,Chair,"A dark wood chair with a leather or fabric back, where the mother is seated.",Center-left.
,Furniture,Table / Vanity,"Covered with a heavy, richly patterned Oriental carpet (table rug).","Right side, mid-ground."
,Furniture,Footstool (Bankje),A small wooden stool topped with a red velvet cushion.,"Foreground, bottom right."
,Furniture,Bed (Canopy),"A dark, heavy fabric structure, likely a boxed bed or a curtained four-poster bed.","Background, right side."
,Personal Care,Lice Comb,"A fine-toothed comb held by the mother, used to inspect the boy's scalp for lice (a symbol of domestic virtue).","Center, at the boy's head."
,Personal Care,Mirror,"A dark-framed mirror propped up on the table, reflecting the girl's face.","Mid-ground, right (on table)."
,Accessories,Plumed Beret,"A dark hat adorned with large, fluffy white and blue feathers resting on the footstool.","Foreground, bottom right."
,Animals,Cat,"A tabby cat sitting on the floor, paws near a small round object (ball).","Foreground, bottom left."
,Toys,Toy Windmill,"A small wooden toy windmill lying discarded on the floor, symbolizing the flightiness of youth.","Foreground, bottom left corner."
,Toys,Ball,"A small ball near the cat, part of the scattered toys on the floor.","Foreground, bottom left."
,Household,Silver Dish / Tray,A small metallic plate or dish sitting on the table near the mirror.,"Mid-ground, right (on table)."
,Architecture,Doorway,An open door frame revealing a dimly lit room where the maid stands.,"Background, far left."
SK-A-296.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Kitchen Maid,"A woman in a white cap and brown bodice, smiling and holding a spit with a bird.","Center-left, standing behind the table."
,Figures,Drinking Man,"A man in a brown doublet and hat, holding a jug and looking toward the maid.","Center, seated at the table."
,Figures,Background Figure,"A dimly lit, shadowy figure (possibly a child or another servant) holding a tray or basket.","Right background, in the shadows."
,Meat & Poultry,Roast on a Spit,"A small, plucked bird (likely a chicken or partridge) skewered on a metal roasting spit.","Held by the maid, angled toward the table."
,Meat & Poultry,Raw Meat/Poultry,"A large pile of carcasses, including what appears to be a hare and various plucked birds.",On the left side of the tabletop.
,Vegetables,Large Squash/Pumpkin,"A long, ribbed, orange-brown winter squash or pumpkin with a thick skin.","Lower-left foreground, resting on the floor."
,Vegetables,Cabbages,"Large, leafy green cabbages (Savoy type) with detailed, crinkled textures.","Lower-center foreground, on the floor."
,Vegetables,Cauliflower,A head of white cauliflower nestled within a woven basket.,"Lower-left, perched on top of a basket."
,Vegetables,Onions,"A cluster of white and yellow onions, some still with their papery skins.","Middle-left, on the edge of the table/basket."
,Vegetables,Roots & Melons,Various root vegetables (possibly parsnips or carrots) and smaller gourds or melons.,"Lower-left foreground, scattered near the squash."
,Fruit,Apples/Pears,"Small, round fruits scattered at the very bottom edge.","Bottom-left corner, on the floor."
,Seafood,Fish (Plaice/Herring),"Two silvery fish lying flat on the floor, suggesting they are fresh from the market.","Bottom-center foreground, on the floor."
,Containers,Woven Basket,A sturdy wicker basket used to hold the cauliflower and onions.,"Left foreground, supporting the produce."
,Containers,Wooden Barrel,"A large, banded wooden barrel with a white cloth draped over its top.","Right foreground, standing upright."
,Containers,Earthenware Pot,"A ceramic ""kookpot"" or cooking vessel with a lid, sitting on the barrel.","On top of the wooden barrel, right foreground."
,Containers,Pitcher/Jug,A ceramic or pewter drinking vessel held by the man.,"Center, held in the man's hands."
,Kitchenware,Brass/Copper Pan,"A large, reflective metal pan (possibly a skillet or basin) leaning against the barrel.","Lower-right foreground, on the floor."
,Kitchenware,Glassware,"A tall ""Roemer"" or flute-style wine glass standing near the barrel.","On top of the barrel, right foreground."
,Kitchenware,Skimmer/Ladle,A long-handled metal kitchen utensil with a perforated head.,"Lower-right, resting on the floor near the pan."
,Hanging Items,Cured Meat,"A dark, cured ham or piece of dried meat hanging from the ceiling structure.","Top-left corner, suspended from a beam."
SK-A-298.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Master Painter,"A man with his back to the viewer, wearing a purple jacket and a red cap, focused on his work.",Lower left foreground
,Figures,Senior Apprentice,"A figure in dark clothing, hunched over, likely preparing a palette or mixing colors.","Center background, behind the easel"
,Figures,Junior Apprentice,"A young boy leaning over a low bench, possibly grinding pigments on a stone slab.",Right mid-ground
,Figures,Dog,"A small, dark-haired dog lying curled up on the wooden floor.",Lower center foreground
,Furniture,Easel,"A tall, wooden tripod easel holding the current landscape painting in progress.",Left-center mid-ground
,Furniture,Low Bench / Table,A rustic wooden table used by the junior apprentice for pigment preparation.,Right mid-ground
,Furniture,Stool,"A simple, three-legged wooden stool used by the master painter.",Lower left foreground
,Tools & Gear,Mahlstick,A long stick held by the painter to steady his hand while painting fine details.,"Left mid-ground, held against the canvas"
,Tools & Gear,Mannequin,A wooden lay-figure (jointed doll) used for studying human poses and drapery.,"Right background, near the stairs"
,Tools & Gear,Pigment Grinding Stone,"A flat, heavy stone slab used for manual paint preparation.",On the bench at the right
,Tools & Gear,Brushes & Palette,Various brushes and a handheld palette being used or lying scattered nearby.,Held by painter and on floor/tables
,Studio Decor,Canvas Canopy,A large cloth sheet draped from the ceiling to protect the workspace from falling dust.,"Center upper mid-ground, above the painter"
,Studio Decor,Animal Skull / Antlers,Curiosities or anatomical references hanging as studio decorations.,High on the wall/ceiling near the window
,Studio Decor,Plaster Bust,"A broken head from a classical-style sculpture, likely for drawing practice.","On the floor, beneath the apprentice's table"
,Architecture,Leaded Window,A window with diamond-shaped glass panes providing the primary light source.,Left wall
,Architecture,Wooden Stairs,"A set of steep, rickety-looking stairs leading to a dark loft or upper floor.",Far right background
,Miscellaneous,Debris & Trash,"Scattered wood shavings, papers, and discarded studio materials on the floor.",Throughout the lower foreground
,Miscellaneous,Trunk / Chest,"An open wooden trunk, possibly for storing supplies or costumes.",Center-right background
SK-A-304.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Machinery,Weaving Loom,"A large, heavy wooden floor loom with horizontal beams and warp threads visible.","Right side of the room, near the window."
,Machinery,Spinning Wheel (Spool Wheel),A wooden wheel used for winding bobbins or spinning thread for the loom.,"Right foreground, positioned in front of the loom."
,Machinery,Reel (Haspel),A skeletal wooden frame used for winding yarn into hanks or skeins.,"Far right, standing on the floor near the edge of the frame."
,Furnishings,Open Hearth / Fireplace,"A large, stone-built open hearth with a wide, smoke-stained mantle/hood.",Left side of the room.
,Furnishings,Wall Cupboard (Wandkast),"A small wooden cabinet built into the back wall, shown with an open door.",Center-back wall.
,Furnishings,Wooden Stool,"A simple, low rustic stool used for seating.","Left foreground, under one of the seated men."
,Figures,Three Men,"Three laborers depicted resting, talking, and smoking pipes.","Left foreground, gathered around the hearth."
,Figures,Woman,A woman reaching into or tidying the wall cupboard.,"Center-background, facing away from the viewer."
,Animals,Dog,A brown-and-white dog curled up and sleeping on the dirt floor.,Lower center foreground.
,Tools/Utility,Glue Tub (Lijmtobbe),"A wooden basin or tub, likely containing sizing or glue for treating threads.","Right side, on the floor beneath the spinning wheel."
,Tools/Utility,Pipes,Long-stemmed clay pipes used for smoking tobacco.,Held by the men in the left foreground.
,Tools/Utility,Mallet / Hammer,A heavy wooden tool lying on the ground.,Bottom right corner.
,Textiles,Laundry/Cloths,Two pieces of fabric (white and dark) hanging from a line or beam.,"Upper center, hanging from the ceiling rafters."
,Architecture,Leaded Glass Window,A lattice-paned window providing the primary light source for the workshop.,Right side wall.
,Architecture,Wooden Rafters,Exposed heavy timber beams supporting the ceiling.,Upper section across the top of the painting.
SK-A-308.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Architecture,Thatch and Timber Roof,"Rough-hewn wooden beams and rafters supporting a dark, vaulted thatched ceiling with visible straw textures.","Upper half of the painting, spanning the entire width."
,Architecture,Brick Hearth/Oven,"A low, rustic brick structure used for cooking or warmth, showing signs of wear and soot.","Middle ground, right of center."
,Figures,Seated Woman,"An elderly woman wearing a white cap and dark bodice, focused on manual labor (peeling vegetables).","Center-midground, seated at a low table."
,Figures,Small Child,"A toddler in dark clothing standing by the woman, looking toward her or the work being done.","Midground, just to the left of the woman."
,Figures,Background Figures,"Two or three dim figures in the distance, one appearing to be bent over near a light source.","Far background, left side."
,Produce,Basket of Vegetables,A wicker basket overflowing with a large green cabbage and several yellow onions or potatoes.,"Foreground, right of center, near the hearth."
,Produce,Plucked Fowl/Ducks,"Two or three birds (likely ducks or chickens) lying on the floor, prepared for cooking.","Foreground, bottom center."
,Kitchenware,Copper Cauldron,"A large, polished copper pot reflecting the dim light, tilted slightly on its side.","Foreground, bottom right."
,Kitchenware,Earthenware Pitcher,"A large, bulbous clay jug or ""kruik"" used for holding water or beer.","Foreground, far right."
,Kitchenware,Decorated Plate,"A circular ceramic plate with a green and white pattern, leaning against the copper pot.","Foreground, bottom right."
,Kitchenware,Wooden Ladle,A long-handled wooden spoon or ladle resting on the floor.,"Foreground, bottom center."
,Furniture,Work Table,"A simple, low wooden trestle table where the woman is performing her tasks.",Center-midground.
,Tools,Broom,A rustic broom made of twigs/straw leaning against the wall or pillar.,"Middle ground, right side."
,Containers,Wooden Bucket,"A sturdy wooden pail or tub with metal hoops, likely for water or washing.","Midground, between the child and the hearth."
,Clothing,Hanging Garment,A dark piece of cloth or a coat hanging from a wooden post.,"Midground, left side."
,Debris,Straw and Pottery Shards,Scattered bits of hay and broken earthenware littering the dirt floor.,"Foreground, scattered across the bottom."
,Animals,Sleeping Cat,"A small cat curled up in the shadows, barely visible near the debris.","Foreground, bottom left corner."
SK-A-375.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Old Woman,"Seated, wearing a red jacket and white cap; she is focused on cutting a loaf of bread.","Center-right, seated."
,Figures,Young Girl,"Standing with hands clasped in prayer (saying grace), wearing a black dress with white collar and a red skirt.","Lower-left, standing."
,Figures,Young Boy,Partially obscured by the woman; he is depicted drinking from a large ceramic jug or bowl.,"Center, behind the woman's lap."
,Furniture,Table,"Covered with a rich, patterned Turkish (Oriental) carpet and a white linen cloth.",Right side of the foreground.
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A simple high-backed wooden chair, likely an ""oak chair,"" used for domestic work.",Far-left background.
,Furniture,Foot Warmer (Stoof),"A small wooden box with holes on top, used to hold hot coals to keep the feet warm.",At the feet of the praying girl.
,Food & Dining,Bread Loaf,A large round loaf of bread held by the woman as she carves a slice.,"Center, in the woman's hands."
,Food & Dining,Plate of Butter/Cheese,"A dark metal or ceramic plate holding a yellow substance, likely butter or cheese.","On the table, left side."
,Food & Dining,Woven Basket,A wicker basket containing more bread and a piece of meat (likely ham or bacon).,"On the table, far-right."
,Food & Dining,Drinking Vessel,A dark ceramic or earthenware jug/bowl held by the boy.,"Center, at the boy's face."
,Interior Decor,Wall Map / Print,"A large, dark, framed object on the wall; typically a Dutch map or a religious print.",Upper-left background wall.
,Household Items,Lace Pillow (Kantkloskussen),"A specialized pillow with bobbins used for making lace, resting on the chair.",On the chair at the far-left.
,Books,Large Ledger/Bible,"A thick, heavy book with metal clasps, standing upright on the floor.","Lower-right, on the floor."
,Interior Decor,Staircase Balustrade,Wooden railing and posts leading to an upper level of the house.,Upper-right background.
,Textiles,Turkish Carpet,"A thick, multi-colored tapestry-style rug draped over the table.","Right side, covering the table."
,Textiles,White Linen Napkin,A clean white cloth draped over the edge of the Turkish carpet.,"On the table, right side."
SK-A-376.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Musical Instruments,Violin,A dark wood violin held and played by a seated man; the bow is in mid-stroke.,"Center-left, held by the seated man."
,Musical Instruments,Sheet Music / Paper,"A single white sheet of paper held by a young boy, appearing to contain lyrics or notes.","Lower center-right, held by the standing boy."
,Kitchenware,Large Wash Basin / Tub,"A large wooden or ceramic tub placed on a wooden stand, filled with green vegetables.","Center, in front of the standing woman."
,Kitchenware,Cooking Pot (Cauldron),A large black metal pot hanging over an active fire within the hearth.,"Right-center, inside the fireplace."
,Kitchenware,Bellows,Traditional wooden and leather bellows hanging on the wall to stoke the fire.,"Far-right, hanging on the wall by the hearth."
,Kitchenware,Skillet / Pan,A long-handled metal frying pan hanging high on the wall.,"Top-right, hanging above the fireplace."
,Kitchenware,Metal Tankard / Stein,A pewter or silver tankard held aloft by a singing man.,"Center-left, held by the standing man."
,Kitchenware,Ceramic Jug / Pitcher,A small brown earthenware jug held by a young child.,"Lower-left, held by the child in green."
,Kitchenware,Pewter Jug,A heavy metal jug sitting on the floor near the musician's stool.,"Bottom-left, on the floor."
,Furniture,Wooden Bench / Stool,A simple three-legged wooden stool used by the violinist.,"Center-left, under the seated man."
,Furniture,Low Table / Trestle,"A small, low wooden table holding food and utensils.","Lower-center, in front of the musicians."
,Food & Staples,Fish (Herring),"Several small fish laid out on a plate or the table, ready for preparation.","Lower-center, on the low table."
,Food & Staples,Woven Basket,"A large, deep wicker basket filled with various household items or fuel.",Bottom-right corner.
,Storage,Wooden Barrel,A large liquid storage barrel (likely for beer or wine) lying on its side.,Far-left background.
,Animals,Sleeping Cat,A small cat curled up on the floor near the boy's feet.,"Bottom-right, on the floor."
,Apparel,Broad-rimmed Hat,"A dark, worn hat resting on the floor.","Bottom-center, on the floor."
,Apparel,White Coif / Bonnet,A traditional white linen cap worn by the woman.,"Center, on the woman's head."
,Tools/Misc,Knife,"A small utility knife used for food preparation, resting on the low table.","Lower-center, on the table."
,Structural,Hearth / Fireplace,A large open stone fireplace with a glowing fire and wooden logs.,Right side of the background.
SK-A-388.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,The Bride,"A woman in a pale/white dress and headpiece, looking demure and slightly overwhelmed.","Center-right background, seated at the long table."
,People,The Groom (Dancing Man),"A balding man in a brown jacket and white apron, dancing energetically and removing his hat in a flourish.","Right foreground/middle ground, center of action."
,People,The Seated Woman (The Hostess/Mother),"A woman in a black jacket and pink skirt, seated on a bench, looking up at the dancing groom.","Center foreground, seated on a wooden bench."
,People,The Fiddler,"A man leaning forward intensely, playing a violin to provide music for the dance.","Left-center middle ground, leaning over a chair."
,People,Double Bass Player,A musician seated and playing a large cello or double bass.,"Middle ground, left side, behind the fiddler."
,People,The Servant Girl,"A girl carrying a candle or pot, descending from the upper level.","Top-center, on the wooden stairs/ladder."
,People,Drinking Peasants,"A group of men and women clustered at the table, some raising glasses or tankards in a toast.","Right background, surrounding the table."
,People,Young Couple,"A man and a woman standing together, watching the festivities.",Far left foreground.
,Musical Instruments,Violin & Bow,"A small stringed instrument held by the leaning man; used to symbolize the ""frivolous"" nature of the party.",Left-center middle ground.
,Musical Instruments,Double Bass / Cello,A large stringed instrument providing the rhythm for the wedding dance.,"Left side, floor level."
,Furniture,Trestle Table,"A long wooden table covered with a white cloth, laden with the wedding feast.",Spanning the right background and middle ground.
,Furniture,Wooden Staircase/Ladder,"A steep, open-backed set of stairs leading to an upper loft or bedroom.",Upper left-center.
,Furniture,Wooden Bench,A simple rustic bench where the seated woman and others are resting.,Lower right foreground.
,Still Life / Vessels,Large Earthenware Jug,"A ""Baardman"" or Bellarmine style jug, likely holding beer or wine, placed prominently.","Lower left foreground, on the floor."
,Still Life / Vessels,Pasglas / Tall Glass,"A tall, cylindrical glass held aloft by a man toasting the crowd.",Right-center background.
,Still Life / Vessels,Pewter Plate,"A metallic dish resting on the floor with food scraps and bones, symbolizing ""gluttony.""",Far bottom right corner.
,Architecture / Decor,Fireplace,"A large, shadowed hearth typical of 17th-century Dutch inns.",Far right background.
,Architecture / Decor,Framed Painting,"A small, dark landscape or portrait hanging on the back wall.","Center background, high on the wall."
,Architecture / Decor,Hanging Tapestry/Rug,"A heavy, decorated textile used for warmth and decoration behind the bride.","Right background, behind the table."
,Architecture / Decor,Hoop / Wreath,A decorative hoop or wedding crown hanging from the ceiling above the bride.,"Top right, above the banquet table."
,Miscellaneous,Eggshells & Bones,"Scattered debris on the floor, a classic Steen device to show a ""messy household"" (Jan Steen huishouden).",Scattered across the foreground floor.
,Miscellaneous,Small Dog,"A terrier-like dog curled up or sniffing under the bench, representing fidelity (ironically placed).","Bottom right, under the bench."
SK-A-488.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Spinning Wheel,"A wooden ""flax"" wheel with a large drive wheel and spindle mechanism, used for hand-spinning yarn.","Center foreground, in front of the woman."
,Furniture,High-backed Chair,A simple wooden chair with a tall backrest where the woman is seated.,"Center-left, behind the woman."
,Furniture,Child's Highchair / Box,"A rustic, box-like wooden seat designed to keep a toddler secure.","Lower left, next to the woman."
,Furniture,Large Cupboard (Kas),"A heavy, dark wooden storage cabinet or armoire partially obscured by shadows.","Background, left of center."
,Tools & Equipment,Distaff,A wooden rod used to hold the unspun fibers (likely flax or wool).,Attached to the top of the spinning wheel.
,Tools & Equipment,Hanging Lantern,"A dark, cylindrical metal lantern suspended from a ceiling beam.","Upper center, hanging from the ceiling."
,Domestic Items,Earthenware Jug,"A large, rounded ceramic vessel, possibly for water or oil.",Lower right foreground.
,Domestic Items,Copper/Metal Basin,A shallow metal bowl or basin resting on the floor.,"Lower center, right of the spinning wheel."
,Domestic Items,Kitchen Utensils,"Various plates, a spoon, and small bowls scattered on the floor.",Bottom right corner.
,Domestic Items,Birdcage,A small wooden and wire cage hanging near a window.,"Top left corner, near the ceiling."
,Architecture,Timber Ceiling Beam,"Thick, dark wooden structural beams supporting the low ceiling.",Upper section of the canvas.
,Architecture,Window,"A small, recessed window allowing a soft stream of light into the dark room.",Mid-left wall.
,Architecture,Fireplace / Hearth,"A dark, recessed area of the wall used for cooking or heating.","Deep background, center-right."
,Textiles,Hanging Laundry,Various cloths or garments draped over a horizontal line or beam.,"Upper mid-ground, spanning the center."
,Textiles,Red Fabric / Cloak,"A bright red piece of cloth draped over a barrel or stool, providing a pop of color.",Far right mid-ground.
,Animals,Small Dog,A white-and-brown spotted terrier-like dog looking up at the child.,Bottom left corner.
,Human Subjects,Spinning Woman,"A woman in a red bodice and white apron, focused on her manual labor.","Left of center, primary focal point."
,Human Subjects,Toddler / Child,"A young child wearing a yellow garment and a white cap, sitting in the highchair.",Lower left.
,Human Subjects,Background Figures,Dimly painted figures (possibly men) seated at a table in the shadows.,Far right background.
SK-A-489.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Main Figures,Alchemist,"A bearded man in a dark scholar’s robe and cap, intently writing.","Center-left, seated at a desk."
,Main Figures,Apprentice / Boy,"A young boy holding a large, shallow bowl or dish, looking toward the alchemist.","Center, standing before the desk."
,Background Figures,Mother / Woman,"A woman seated near a heat source, engaged in domestic work (possibly spinning or preparing food).","Background, right side."
,Background Figures,Child,A small child sitting or playing on the floor near the woman.,"Background, far right by the woman's feet."
,Furniture,Lectern / Writing Desk,"A sloped wooden desk cluttered with papers, used by the alchemist.","Middle ground, left."
,Furniture,Large Chest,"A heavy, dark wooden trunk with a rounded lid and metal hardware.","Foreground, bottom left."
,Scientific Instruments,Celestial/Terrestrial Globe,"A large globe mounted in a wooden frame, symbolizing the alchemist's study of the cosmos.","Mid-left, perched on a shelf or stack near the window."
,Scientific Instruments,Mortar and Pestle,"A dark, heavy-duty bowl with a grinding tool, used for pulverizing chemicals or herbs.","Foreground, floor center-right."
,Scientific Instruments,Laboratory Glassware,"Various flasks, jars, and apothecary-style containers used for experiments.",Scattered on shelves and the workbench.
,Scientific Instruments,Bellows,Traditional wooden and leather bellows used to stoke the laboratory fires.,Hanging on the wall or near the desk.
,Study Materials,Books and Folios,"Thick, leather-bound volumes, some open and some stacked in disarray.",Scattered on the floor and desk.
,Study Materials,Loose Papers / Manuscripts,"Crumpled sheets, letters, and scrolls representing ongoing research and notes.",Strewn across the floor and the desk.
,Architecture,Leaded Glass Window,"A tall window with small, diamond-shaped or rectangular panes providing natural light.",Far left wall.
,Architecture,Fireplace / Stove,A large hearth or stove used for both domestic warmth and alchemical heating.,"Background, right side."
,Natural Objects,Mounted Crocodile (Taxidermy),"A stuffed crocodile hanging from the ceiling, a common ""curiosity"" in 17th-century laboratories.",Hanging from the ceiling beams.
,Natural Objects,Dried Herbs / Garlands,Strings of dried plants or decorative swags used for medicinal or atmospheric purposes.,Hanging from the rafters and ceiling.
,Vessels,Large Ceramic Jar / Pot,"A rounded, earthen-toned jar with tied cord or rope around its neck.","Foreground, bottom left corner."
,Vessels,Metal Kettle / Basin,Large metallic containers used for heating liquids.,"Floor, middle-ground near the center."
SK-A-495.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Lutenist (Male),"A man in 17th-century attire (brown jacket, blue stockings, feathered cap) playing a lute.","Center-left, seated on a stool."
,Figures,Listening Woman,"A woman in a green bodice with a white collar, leaning her head on her hand, listening pensively.","Center-right, seated behind the table."
,Musical Instruments,Lute,A large stringed instrument with a pear-shaped body and a long neck with tuning pegs.,"Center, held by the man."
,Musical Instruments,Songbook / Sheet Music,An open book with musical notation resting on the table.,"Center, on the table in front of the man."
,Furniture,Table,Covered with a decorative red and patterned carpet (Persian style) and a white linen cloth.,Center-right.
,Furniture,Stool / Chair,A simple wooden stool with a red velvet cushion and a white cloth draped over it.,Bottom right foreground.
,Animals,Spaniel Dog,A brown and white hunting-style dog lying calmly on the floor.,Bottom left foreground.
,Animals,Cat,A small cat curled up and sleeping under the table.,"Bottom right, near the table leg."
,Food & Drink,Fruit Bowl,"A silver or pewter plate containing apples, pears, and a bunch of grapes.","On the table, right side."
,Food & Drink,Glass of Red Wine,"A tall ""roemer"" or wine glass filled with red liquid.","On the table, near the woman."
,Food & Drink,Bread / Loaf,A small loaf of bread or a bun resting on the table cloth.,"On the table, far right."
,Vessels,Ceramic Jug / Pitcher,A white stoneware or earthenware jug with a pewter lid.,"On the table, far right edge."
,Architecture,Balcony / Terrace Railing,A wooden or stone balustrade with spherical finials (ball ornaments).,Left foreground and middle ground.
,Architecture,Window,"A dark, leaded-glass window set into the interior wall.",Upper right background.
,Architecture,Red Curtain,"A long, vibrant red fabric draped near the opening to the terrace.","Upper left, hanging vertically."
,Decor,Framed Painting,A small landscape or genre painting hanging on the interior wall.,"Right side, above the woman’s head."
,Nature,Grapevine,A leafy vine growing up the side of the terrace pillar.,"Upper left, climbing the wall."
,Landscape,Cityscape / Canal,Tall Dutch gable-roofed buildings lining a canal under a blue sky.,Far left background (view through the opening).
,Landscape,Stone Bridge,A small bridge crossing the canal in the distance.,Middle left background.
SK-A-685.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Young Woman (Lady),"Seated woman wearing a red jacket trimmed with white fur, a white neckerchief, and a long white apron. She has red ribbons in her hair.","Seated on the left, facing right."
,Figures,Standing Maidservant,"A woman dressed in a yellow bodice and a dark blue/black apron, wearing a white Dutch cap (coif). She appears to be listening or waiting.","Standing in the center, behind the other two women."
,Figures,Elderly Woman,An older woman wearing a dark dress and a wide-brimmed black hat. She is gesturing with her right hand while holding a glass.,"Seated on the right, facing left toward the young woman."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A high-backed chair with visible decorative studs and a dark finish, upon which the young woman is seated.","Lower-left quadrant, supporting the young woman."
,Furniture,Map of Holland,"A large, rectangular wall map hanging from a wooden rod, characteristic of 17th-century Dutch interiors.","Hanging on the back wall, top-left to center-left."
,Container,Glass of Wine,"A clear glass filled with a light amber liquid, likely wine or beer, held by the elderly woman.","Right-center, held by the woman on the right."
,Container,Wicker Basket,A woven basket containing red fruit (cherries) partially covered by a white cloth.,"Bottom-right corner, on the floor."
,Clothing Accessory,White Bonnet/Coif,Traditional white linen headgear worn by both the standing maid and the seated lady.,On the heads of the woman in the center and the woman on the left.
,Architecture,Arched Doorway,"A dark wood, arched door with heavy metal hinges and a latch, leading out of the room.","Background, right side."
,Domestic Item,Brass Warming Pan,"A long-handled metal pan, typically used to warm beds, held by the standing maid.","Center-left, held vertically by the standing maid."
,Domestic Item,White Handkerchief/Pouch,A crumpled white cloth or small bag resting on the lap of the elderly woman.,"Center-right, on the lap of the woman on the right."
,Architectural Detail,Tiled Floor,"Large, square terracotta-colored tiles forming the ground surface of the interior.",Foreground and across the base of the scene.
SK-A-688.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Mother,"A young woman seated, nursing an infant; she wears a dark bodice with one breast exposed and a white shawl/chemise.","Center, seated on a footstool."
,People,Infant,"A baby held in the mother's lap, wearing a yellow tunic and holding a small toy.","Center, in the mother's arms."
,People,Young Boy,"A boy with a smiling expression, wearing a cap, leaning on the windowsill from outside.","Left side, visible through the open window."
,Animals,Dog,"A small, white scruffy terrier-like dog sitting attentively on the floor, looking toward the mother.","Bottom right, on the floor."
,Furniture,Footstool (Stoof),A wooden box-like footstool upon which the mother rests her feet; it bears the artist's signature and date.,"Bottom center, under the mother's feet."
,Furniture,Cradle / Basket,A woven wicker basket or cradle filled with white linens and covered partially by a red cloth.,"Right side, behind the dog."
,Architecture,Open Window,A large window with leaded glass panes; the lower shutter is swung open to reveal the exterior.,Left side of the room.
,Architecture,Hearth / Fireplace,"A recessed, dark hearth area built into the stone wall beneath the window.","Bottom left, below the window."
,Architecture,Water Pump,"A wooden domestic water pump with a handle and spout, used for household chores.","Background, right side."
,Clothing/Textiles,Headscarf / Cap,"A dark, simple cap worn by the mother to pull back her hair.",Atop the mother's head.
,Clothing/Textiles,Apron / Skirt,A heavy blue and grey skirt layered with a white apron draped over the mother's lap.,"Center, covering the mother's lower body."
,Toys,Toy Windmill,"A small handheld ""molentje"" (toy mill or whirligig) held upright by the infant.","Center-right, in the infant's hand."
,Household Objects,Hanging Hat,A wide-brimmed dark hat hanging on the wall between the two windows.,"Upper center, on the wall."
,Household Objects,Tools / Utensils,"Various metallic objects, possibly tongs or scissors, resting on the ledge of the hearth.","Lower left, on the hearth ledge."
,Environment,Exterior Building,A cottage with a visible chimney and greenery under a blue sky with white clouds.,"Background, seen through the window."
SK-A-721.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Standing Singer,A man in a tan doublet and breeches with a bright orange sash; he holds a small songbook.,"Left foreground, standing next to the table."
,Figures,Seated Gentleman,"A man wearing a wide-brimmed hat and dark clothing, looking down at papers or music on the table.","Center, seated behind the table."
,Figures,Standing Woman,"A woman in a dark dress with a white chemise, leaning over and gesturing toward the seated man.","Center-right, standing behind the table."
,Figures,Lute/Viola Player,"A woman in an elegant white and gold gown with fur trim, tuning or holding a large stringed instrument.","Right foreground, seated in a red chair."
,Figures,Servant/Boy,A young boy in dark attire leaning forward to play with or restrain a small dog.,"Far right, in the background shadows."
,Animals,Spaniel Dog,A small white and brown dog jumping up toward the servant boy.,"Far right, bottom corner."
,Musical Instruments,Viola da Gamba,"A large, fretted stringed instrument with a carved headstock, resting against the seated woman’s knee.","Right foreground, leaning toward the center."
,Furniture,Table,"Covered with a heavy, fringed red velvet cloth (tapis), serving as the focal point for the group.","Center-left, occupying much of the mid-ground."
,Furniture,Red Velvet Chair,A high-backed chair with red upholstery and visible brass tacks.,"Right side, behind the seated woman."
,Furniture,Fireplace Mantle,"A large, ornate grey stone or marble architectural chimney piece.","Center background, behind the standing figures."
,Objects,Songbooks/Sheet Music,Small bound books and loose papers held by the figures or resting on the table.,"Scattered between the standing singer, seated man, and tabletop."
,Objects,Pewter/Glass Pitcher,"A tall vessel with a handle, likely containing wine or water for the company.",On the left side of the table.
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,A checkerboard pattern of alternating light and dark (likely marble) square tiles.,"Lower foreground, stretching across the entire width."
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A dark door frame revealing a glimpse of a brighter, possibly outdoor or adjacent room area.",Far right background.
,Architecture,Foot Warmer,"A small wooden box (stoof) used to hold hot coals, placed under the seated woman's foot.","Center-right, on the floor beneath the woman's gown."
,Fine Art,Overmantel Painting,"A framed painting hanging above the fireplace, though the details within it are heavily shadowed.","Top center, above the mantle."
SK-A-767.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Woman Spinning,A woman dressed in a dark gown and a white Dutch cap (coif). She is seated and focused intently on her work.,"Middle ground, center-left"
,Figures,Man by the Hearth,"A man wearing a wide-brimmed hat, shown in profile and cast in shadow. He is warming himself by the fire.","Middle ground, far-left (seated against the wall)"
,Furniture,Spinning Wheel,A wooden spindle-type spinning wheel. The wheel itself is highlighted by the light from the window.,"Center, in front of the woman"
,Furniture,Table with Cloth,"A sturdy table covered with a thick, textured cloth (likely wool or linen) that drapes toward the floor.","Middle ground, center-right (behind the woman)"
,Furniture,Hearth / Fireplace,"A large, projecting stone fireplace with a wooden mantelpiece. A small fire glows at the base.","Foreground to middle ground, far-left"
,Architecture,Leaded Windows,A large four-pane window with small rectangular glass panes held by lead cames. It serves as the primary light source.,"Background, upper center"
,Architecture,Heraldic Glass,"Four small, circular stained-glass crests or coats of arms set into the upper window panes.",Top of the window frame
,Architecture,Red Tile Floor,"A floor made of traditional Dutch red clay tiles (plavuizen), reflecting the dim light of the room.",Foreground and middle ground (lower half of canvas)
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A door left ajar leading into a brighter, secondary room where another figure or object is vaguely visible.","Background, far-right"
,Household Items,Ceramic Plates,Several decorative or functional plates propped upright along the mantelpiece.,"Top of the fireplace mantel, far-left"
,Household Items,Metal Jug / Pitcher,"A dark, possibly stoneware or pewter jug resting on a wooden cabinet or ledge.","Background, mid-right (below the window)"
,Household Items,Birdcage,"A small, square wire birdcage hanging near the window frame.","Background, upper right of the window"
,Household Items,Wooden Cabinet,A low storage chest or built-in cupboard situated beneath the window.,"Background, right side"
,Household Items,Cooking Pot,A dark metal pot or cauldron sitting on the floor or a low stool near the hearth.,"Foreground, far-left (at the man's feet)"
,Household Items,Reel / Swift,"A wooden frame used for winding yarn, resting on the floor.","Foreground, lower center-left"
SK-A-835.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Musical Instrument,Lute (Theorbo-style),A multi-stringed instrument with a large rounded body and a bent neck; the woman holds it in a playing position.,"Front left, held by the primary female figure."
,Musical Instrument,Viola da Gamba / Cello,"A large, bowed string instrument with ""f-holes"" and a carved scroll; the man on the right holds the neck and a bow.","Right side of the foreground, extending vertically."
,Musical Instrument,Musical Bow,"A long, slender wooden rod with horsehair used to play the string instrument.","Lower right, held horizontally by the man on the right."
,Printed Material,Music Book (Songbook),An open book with visible musical notation (staffs and notes) laying flat on a table.,"Center foreground, resting on the table."
,Furniture,Table,A wooden surface partially covered by the music book and the musicians' arms.,"Center, middle ground between the figures."
,Clothing/Accessory,Plumed Hat (Feathered),"A dark, wide-brimmed hat adorned with large, soft white and grey feathers.","Upper right, worn by the man playing the cello."
,Clothing/Accessory,Biret / Beret,"A dark, flat fabric cap with a small gold or metallic medallion pinned to the side.","Upper center, worn by the man leaning over the table."
,Clothing/Accessory,Fur-Trimmed Headdress,"An elaborate white and grey head covering with a textured, fur-like trim.","Upper left, worn by the woman playing the lute."
,Clothing/Accessory,Earring (Pearl),"A large, teardrop-shaped pearl dangling from the ear of the female musician.","Center left, on the woman's visible ear."
,Figure/Anatomy,Female Musician,"A woman in yellow and white silk attire, looking directly at the viewer while playing.","Left foreground, the most prominent figure."
,Figure/Anatomy,Male Musician (Right),"A man in a burgundy jacket and feathered hat, focused on his instrument.","Right foreground, seen in profile."
,Figure/Anatomy,Man (Center),A man in a dark green garment leaning in to point at the music book.,"Top center, leaning over from behind the table."
,Figure/Anatomy,Young Singer/Observer,"A younger figure in a blue/teal tunic, looking down intently at the music book.","Center, positioned between the other three figures."
,Figure/Anatomy,Background Figure,"A dimly lit, shadowy face appearing behind the woman on the left.","Far upper left, partially obscured by shadow."
,Clothing,Lace Collar / Ruff,"Delicate, white ruffled fabric around the neck of the younger central figure.","Center, just above the table."
SK-A-889.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,The Artist,"A young man with a mustache and goatee, wearing a dark doublet with patterned sleeves and a prominent white ruff. He holds his tools and looks toward the viewer.","Foreground, left side."
,Figures,The Mother,"An elderly woman wearing a dark dress, a white ruff, and a white cap (vlieger style). She looks toward the skull on the table.","Midground, center-right."
,Figures,The Father,"An elderly man with a grey beard and white ruff. He rests his hand on a human skull, looking toward the viewer or the painter.","Midground, right side."
,Art Equipment,Easel,A wooden tripod structure supporting a canvas.,"Background, center."
,Art Equipment,Canvas (Portrait-within-a-painting),"A smaller painting depicted on the easel showing the same elderly couple in a more finished, simplified state.","Center, resting on the easel."
,Art Equipment,Palette,"A flat wooden board held by the artist, loaded with various dabs of oil paint.","Foreground, center-left (held by the artist)."
,Art Equipment,Brushes,A bundle of several thin wooden brushes with dark bristles held in the same hand as the palette.,Held in the artist's left hand.
,Art Equipment,Mahlstick,A long wooden rod with a padded tip used by the artist to steady his painting hand.,"Diagonally crossing the center, held by the artist."
,Vanitas Symbols,Human Skull,"A realistic cranium placed on the table, representing memento mori (remember you must die).","Foreground/Midground, bottom right on the table."
,Vanitas Symbols,Hourglass,"A glass and wood timekeeping device, symbolizing the passage of time and the brevity of life.","Far right, resting on the table."
,Furniture,Table,"A dark wooden surface covered partly by blue cloth or paper, holding the skull and writing tools.",Bottom right corner.
,Interior Decor,Red Curtain,"A heavy, draped red fabric tied back, serving as a theatrical ""reveal"" of the scene.",Top right corner and right edge.
,Interior Decor,Wood Paneling,Dark wainscoting or wooden panels lining the wall of the studio.,"Background, right side behind the couple."
,Interior Decor,Window,"A tall, narrow window showing leaded glass panes, suggesting the light source for the studio.","Background, far left edge."
,Stationery,Quill and Inkwell,"A feather pen and a small pot, likely used for signing or noting dates, emphasizing the scholarly nature of the work.","Bottom right, on the table next to the hourglass."
,Stationery,Book / Paper,A small book or stack of papers lying open beneath the father's hand and the skull.,"Bottom right, on the table."
SK-A-1279.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Primary Maidservant,"A woman in traditional Dutch attire (brown bodice, white collar, blue apron) leaning over a barrel, looking toward the viewer.",Center-right foreground
,Figures,Secondary Maidservant,"A smaller figure in the background, tending to a cooking pot over an open fire.","Middle ground, left side"
,Furniture,Wooden Barrel,"A large, rustic wooden barrel with iron hoops, serving as a workspace for the maid.",Lower center foreground
,Furniture,Three-legged Stool,A dark-toned wooden stool (triangular base) holding a bowl of vegetables.,"Middle ground, left of the barrel"
,Storage,Wall Cabinet,"A small wooden wall-mounted cupboard with its door open, revealing interior compartments.",Upper right background
,Storage,Braided Basket,"A shallow, rectangular wicker or straw basket held by the maid on top of the barrel.","Center foreground, atop the barrel"
,Storage,Large Trough/Tub,"A wide, round wooden wash-tub or dough trough with integrated handles.",Lower left corner
,Lighting,Brass Lantern,"A detailed, perforated metal lantern with a handle, sitting on the floor.","Lower left foreground, near the tub"
,Kitchenware,Large Cooking Pot,A dark metal cauldron suspended over the flames of the hearth.,"Middle ground, far left"
,Kitchenware,Pewter/Ceramic Plates,"Three large, circular plates displayed vertically on a wall shelf.","Background, left-center wall"
,Kitchenware,Red Ceramic Bowls,A stack of small red glazed bowls or plates sitting on the shelf.,"Background, right of the large plates"
,Kitchenware,Shallow Wooden Bowl,A bowl filled with root vegetables (possibly turnips or onions) sitting on the stool.,"Middle ground, left of the maid"
,Tools,Bellows,"A wooden and leather hand-tool for stoking fire, hanging on the back wall.","Background, upper center-left"
,Tools,Fire Iron/Fork,A long-handled metal tool hanging next to the bellows.,"Background, upper center-right"
,Architecture,Large Hearth/Fireplace,"A grand stone fireplace with a mantle, housing an active wood fire.","Background, far left wall"
,Architecture,Stone Walls,Rough-textured masonry walls forming the kitchen interior.,Entire background
,Misc.,Straw/Debris,Scattered bits of yellow straw or hay on the stone floor.,Lower right foreground
,Misc.,Glass Bottles,Small dark glass bottles or jars sitting atop the fireplace mantle.,Upper left background
SK-A-1298.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Male Card Player (Left),"A man in profile wearing a yellow doublet, brown breeches, and white stockings. He holds playing cards in his right hand.","Standing, foreground left."
,Figures,Female Figure,"A woman in an elegant, embroidered cream and gold gown. She looks directly at the viewer while holding a long clay pipe.","Seated, foreground right."
,Figures,Elderly Male Onlooker,An older man with a grey cap leaning in to peer at the cards held by the player on the left.,"Standing, background right, behind the woman."
,Figures,Hidden Figure / Peeping Man,"A man wearing a wide-brimmed hat, partially obscured, peering out from behind the central makeshift table.","Center middle ground, behind the wooden crate."
,Furniture,Wooden Crate / Table,"A large, rough-hewn wooden box or crate serving as a makeshift table for the card game.","Center, middle ground."
,Clothing Accessories,Sash / Belt,"A wide, teal-colored silk sash tied in a large bow at the back of the left-hand player's waist.",Attached to the player on the far left.
,Clothing Accessories,Lace Cuffs and Collars,Intricate white lace detailing on the sleeves and collars of both the standing man and the seated woman.,Visible on the figures in the foreground.
,Personal Items,Playing Cards,Small rectangular paper cards held in the hand of the standing man and visible in the hand of the elderly onlooker.,Center-left and upper-right of the group.
,Personal Items,Clay Pipe (Gouda-style),"A long-stemmed, white clay smoking pipe held delicately by the seated woman near her mouth.","Foreground right, held by the woman."
,Clothing,Wide-Brimmed Hat,"A dark, floppy hat worn by the figure peering from behind the crate.","Center, just above the wooden crate."
,Clothing,Beret / Soft Cap,"A soft, greyish cap worn by the elderly man leaning over the scene.",Upper right.
,Footwear,Leather Boots,"Rough, tan-colored leather boots with folded-over tops worn by the standing player.",Lower left.
,Footwear,Embellished Shoe,"A delicate, greenish shoe with a decorative bow or lace, visible on the woman's extended foot.","Lower center, near the bottom edge."
,Debris,Discarded Paper / Card,"A small, white scrap of paper or a discarded card lying on the floor.",Far lower left corner.
,Architecture,Wall / Background,"A dark, nondescript brownish-amber wall with visible vertical brushstrokes, suggesting a dimly lit interior or tavern.",Entire background area.
SK-A-1331.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Teacher (Old Man),"An elderly man with a beard and fur-trimmed hat, leaning forward to instruct his pupil.","Center-Right, leaning toward the center."
,Figures,Pupil (Young Boy),"A youth holding a drawing tool, focused intently on a sketchbook or paper.","Center-Left, facing right toward the teacher."
,Sculpture,Plaster Cast: The Spinario,"A replica of the famous ""Boy with Thorn"" sculpture, shown as a pale, white plaster cast.","Center, atop the table/pedestal; the primary subject of the lesson."
,Sculpture,Plaster Cast: Venus,"A classical female bust or figure, likely a Roman or Greek replica, rendered in bright white plaster.","Center-Background, behind the Spinario."
,Sculpture,Male Bust (Foreground),"A dark, silhouetted bust of a man with curly hair, partially obscuring the light source.",Bottom-Right Foreground.
,Light Source,Candle / Lamp,"Hidden behind the foreground bust; its flame is barely visible, but its warm glow illuminates the scene.",Lower-Right (obscured).
,Furniture,Pedestal / Table,A heavy stone or wood table upon which the plaster casts are arranged.,"Lower-Center, spanning the foreground."
,Art Tools,Sketchbook / Paper,The surface upon which the boy is drawing; it catches the direct candlelight.,"Center-Left, in front of the pupil."
,Art Tools,Stylus / Chalk,The instrument held by the boy to mark his paper.,"Center-Left, in the boy's hand."
,Inscription,Artist Signature & Date,"The text ""J. TER BORCH 1634"" is inscribed on the base of the Spinario statue.",Center (on the statue's pedestal).
,Architecture,Dark Interior Wall,"A shadowy, indistinct background that emphasizes the ""Caravaggesque"" lighting.",Full Background.
SK-A-1338.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Musician (Lute Player),"A man shown in half-length, dressed in a pinkish doublet with a white lace-edged collar and a dark cloak. He wears a large, wide-brimmed black hat.","Center to right-center, facing left toward the light."
,Musical Instrument,Lute,"A large stringed instrument with a pear-shaped body, a round soundhole (rosette), and a bent neck. It is depicted with warm, wood tones.","Held across the figure's lap, extending from bottom-center to the right."
,Light Source,Oil Lamp,"A small, lit lamp with a visible flame. It provides the primary light source for the scene, casting a warm glow on the figure.","Upper-left corner, resting on a stand or tall base."
,Furniture,Table,"A wooden surface, partially illuminated by the lamp, appearing dark green or brown under the low light.","Foreground, extending from the bottom-left toward the center."
,Furniture,Lamp Stand,A vertical support structure that holds the oil lamp aloft.,"Far-left edge, partially obscured by shadow."
,Clothing,Wide-Brimmed Hat,"A large, dark felt or fabric hat that casts a subtle shadow over the upper portion of the musician's face.","Top-center, atop the musician's head."
,Clothing,Lace Collar,"A white, decorative collar with ruffled edges, typical of 17th-century Dutch fashion.","Center, around the musician's neck."
,Inscriptions,Artist Signature,"The text ""J. v. Bijlert fec."" (Jan van Bijlert made [this]).","Top-right corner, inscribed in the background."
,Atmosphere,Darkness / Shadow,"Deep, dark background (tenebrism) that creates a sense of intimate space and highlights the figure.","Background, filling most of the upper and left-side space."
SK-A-1341.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Heavy Wooden Table,"A dark, solid wooden desk with a polished top that reflects the light and the objects resting upon it.",Foreground; spanning the lower horizontal plane of the composition.
,Furniture,Wooden Bookshelf,"A rustic, crowded shelf system filled with disorganized manuscripts and bundles.",Background; upper half of the painting behind the figures.
,Documents,Open Ledger (Account Book),"A thick book with handwritten Dutch script and two prominent red wax seals, used to record taxes or legal fees.",Center foreground; resting directly on the table in front of the middle figure.
,Documents,Legal Parchments,"Multiple loose papers, some folded and others flat, featuring hanging wax seals that signify official or government authority.",Background; scattered and pinned to the shelves/walls behind the men.
,Financial,Leather Money Pouch,"A small, dark drawstring bag being gripped tightly, suggesting the collection and hoarding of currency.",Bottom left; held in the hand of the man in the reddish-brown robe.
,Financial,Gold and Silver Coins,"Assorted currency from various regions, depicted with metallic luster to highlight the ""complex monetary system"" of the Low Countries.",Center foreground; scattered near and on top of the open ledger.
,Personal Items,Woodwind Flute (Recorder),"A simple wooden flute held by the youngest figure, contrasting the ""serious"" business of the adults with a symbol of idle play.",Bottom right; held by the child in the yellow and red garment.
,Personal Items,Signet Ring,"A gold ring worn on the finger, used for pressing personal seals into wax on official documents.",Lower right; visible on the hand resting near the child’s shoulder.
,Clothing,Turban-style Hat,"An elaborate, dark, multi-layered headdress that was fashionably archaic even at the time of painting to emphasize greed.",Upper center; worn by the central older man with the white beard.
,Clothing,Linen Coif (Headcloth),"A white, starched cloth covering the hair, typical of a modest or elderly woman of the period.",Upper right; worn by the woman looking toward the central figure.
,Lighting,Candlestick and Candle,"A metal holder with a partially used white candle, often a symbol of the ""light of truth"" or the ""transience of life"" (Vanitas).",Mid-ground right; sitting on a shelf behind the woman and child.
,Storage,Wooden Coffer (Small Box),"A rectangular wooden box with a lid, likely used for storing pens, ink, or precious small items.",Background center; sitting on the shelf directly above the central man’s hand.
SK-A-1351.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Cavalry Soldier (Officer),Dressed in a yellow doublet with a red sash and a tall feathered hat; he is aggressively raising a large glass vessel (Roemer) as if to strike.,"Center, seated at the table facing left."
,Figures,Kneeling Peasant,"A man in a pinkish-lilac tunic and tan breeches, kneeling in a plea for mercy with his hands clasped toward the soldier.","Foreground, left-center."
,Figures,Distraught Woman,"A woman in a dark dress with a white ruff, looking on in terror; she appears to be holding or shielding a child.","Right-center, behind the table."
,Figures,Standing Soldier (Sentry),"A soldier in a brown coat and tall hat, leaning on a staff or musket, watching the scene with a smirk or neutral expression.","Far right, standing near the fireplace."
,Figures,Looters/Observers,"Several shadowy figures visible through the open doorway, some carrying bundles or wearing wide-brimmed hats.","Far left, in the background/doorway."
,Furniture,Wooden Trestle Table,"A simple, sturdy wooden table covered with a white cloth, cluttered with the remains of a meal.",Center.
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,A basic ladder-back wooden chair occupied by the main soldier.,"Center, viewed from the back."
,Weaponry,Rapier/Sword,"A long sword in a scabbard with a cross-guard hilt, hanging from the central soldier's belt.","Center-right, hanging off the soldier's side."
,Weaponry,Polearm/Staff,"A long wooden staff held by the soldier on the right, likely a partisan or halberd.","Far right, held vertically."
,Tableware,Roemer (Wine Glass),"A large, green-tinted glass vessel with a thick studded base, held aloft by the central soldier.","Upper-center, raised in the air."
,Tableware,Pewter Plates & Platters,"Several metallic plates, some holding food (likely meat or bread), scattered across the table.","Center, on the tabletop."
,Tableware,Ceramic Pitcher,"A dark, rounded earthenware jug used for serving ale or wine.","Center, on the table."
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A heavy wooden door swung open, revealing more soldiers and sunlight from the outside.",Far left.
,Architecture,Fireplace/Hearth,"A large, open hearth with a warm glow from embers, topped with a wooden mantle.",Far right.
,Kitchenware,Brass/Pewter Dishes,Large circular plates or trays displayed on a high shelf or rack against the back wall.,"Top-center, against the back wall."
,Animals,Guard Dog,"A dark-colored dog peeking out from behind the kneeling peasant, looking toward the viewer.","Lower left, near the peasant's feet."
,Clothing,Feathered Hat,"An extravagant hat with a bright red plume, signifying the soldier's status and bravado.","Center, on the main soldier's head."
,Textiles,Red Cloak/Cloth,A bunch of red fabric hanging from a peg or the wall near the door.,"Mid-left, hanging on the wall."
SK-A-1427.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Female Player,A woman in a pale yellow/gold dress with a large white lace collar and ruff; she leans forward attentively.,"Left foreground, seated on a wooden chair."
,Figures,Male Player,"A man in a dark green velvet doublet with gold trimmings and a large, broad-brimmed grey hat; he stands while playing.","Center-right, leaning over the table."
,Figures,Male Observer,"A man with a reddish-brown cloak and hat, peering over the woman's shoulder to watch the game.","Left-center, behind the female player."
,Figures,Seated Servant/Youth,"A young man or servant in a dark hat and white collar, observing the scene from a distance.","Mid-ground, far right."
,Furniture,Gaming Table,"A heavy wooden table covered with a rich, patterned Oriental rug (Persian or Turkish style).","Center foreground, between the players."
,Gaming Equipment,Tric-Trac Board,An open wooden backgammon board (tric-trac) with visible playing points and pieces.,"Center, resting on the table rug."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A simple turned-wood chair with a high back, typical of the 17th-century Dutch style.","Far left, under the female player."
,Furnishings,Oriental Rug,"A thick, decorative textile with red, black, and orange floral/geometric patterns and fringe.",Draped over the central table.
,Clothing,Broad-brimmed Hats,"Large, fashionable felt hats worn by both the central male player and the observer.",Upper center and left-center.
,Clothing,Millstone Ruff,"A stiff, pleated white lace collar worn by the woman and the central man.",Around the necks of the primary figures.
,Decor/Arms,Rapier/Sword,A hilt and handle of a sword or rapier hanging against the back wall.,"Background, upper right."
,Textiles,Red Cloak,A bright red fabric or cloak draped over a chair or bench in the background.,Far right background.
,Architecture,Interior Wall,"A dark, non-descript interior wall that provides a somber contrast to the bright clothing.","Background, spanning the width."
,Furniture,Wooden Bench,A dark wooden bench or stool where the secondary figure on the right sits.,"Mid-ground, right side."
SK-A-1457.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Wine Merchant / Host,"A man in a dark broad-brimmed hat and dark coat, seen from the back. He holds a glass of wine aloft towards the light coming through the open door.","Left foreground, standing before the open doorway."
,Figure,Seated Guest / Taster,"A man dressed in a light-colored, ornate doublet and breeches with a red cloak draped over his lap. He appears relaxed or intoxicated, leaning back against a barrel.","Center, seated against the right wall."
,Vessel,Wine Glass (Roemer or Berkemeyer style),"A glass filled with white wine, held high to inspect its color and clarity against the natural light.","Top left, held by the standing figure."
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A large wooden door swung open, revealing a view of a city street and buildings under a pale sky.","Far left, extending from top to bottom."
,Architecture,City Buildings,"Gabled Dutch-style houses visible through the open door, rendered with soft details to indicate distance.",Seen through the doorway on the left.
,Furniture / Utility,Large Barrel (Tun),A large wooden barrel used for storing or aging wine. It serves as a backrest for the seated figure.,"Center-right, behind the seated man."
,Clothing / Accessory,Broad-brimmed Hat,"A dark, flat-crowned hat typical of 17th-century Dutch fashion.",On the head of the standing figure at the left.
,Clothing / Accessory,Plumed Hat / Feathers,"A hat adorned with large white ostrich feathers, held or resting near the seated man's hand.","Lower center, near the seated man's right hand."
,Clothing / Accessory,Sword / Rapier,"A thin sword hilt and blade visible by the seated man's side, indicating a certain social status.","Lower center, resting against the seated man's leg."
,Tool,Bellows,"A wooden hand-bellows used for stoking a fire, lying on the floor.","Lower right corner, on the floor."
,Tool,Bucket / Pail,A wooden or metal bucket sitting on the floor in the shadows.,Far right foreground.
,Architecture,Interior Room,"A dark, sparsely furnished interior, likely a tavern or the cellar of a wine merchant.",Occupies the majority of the right and center background.
SK-A-1545.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Mature Man,"A bearded man with thinning hair, dressed in a dark, heavy robe. He gazes directly at the viewer with a somber expression.","Upper center, positioned behind the children and the table."
,Figures,Elder Boy,Dressed in a simple white tunic with a dark green or blue outer garment draped over one shoulder.,"Far left, standing and looking toward the right."
,Figures,Middle Boy,"Dressed in a luxurious, shimmering dark green velvet tunic. He points toward the younger child.","Center-left, standing with his back partially to the viewer, looking over his shoulder."
,Figures,Youngest Child,"Dressed in a light, draped garment resembling a toga or wrap. Holds the hand of the middle boy.","Center-right, standing behind the globe."
,Scientific Instrument,Terrestrial Globe,"A large, detailed globe mounted on an ornate, carved wooden tripod stand with brass meridian rings.",Lower right foreground.
,Jewelry & Wealth,Gold Chains,"Multiple heavy, ornate gold chains with intricate links, some set with dark gemstones.","Right side, draped over the red tablecloth."
,Jewelry & Wealth,Gold Medallion,"A large, circular gold coin or portrait medal hanging from one of the chains.","Right side, dangling near the front of the table."
,Furnishings,Red Tablecloth,"A vibrant, saturated red cloth covering a table or sideboard, providing a base for the luxury items.","Right side, extending from the mid-ground to the edge."
,Luxury Goods,Jewelry Box (Casket),"A dark, possibly leather or wood box with a small keyhole and a lid that appears slightly ajar.","Mid-right, sitting on the red cloth."
,Luxury Goods,Golden Vessel/Cup,"A tall, ornate golden chalice or decorative cup with embossed details.","Far right, partially cropped at the edge of the frame."
,Textiles,Patterned Carpet,A dark rug with an intricate border pattern (possibly Oriental/Persian) placed under the globe.,"Bottom right, underneath the globe's stand."
,Architecture,Dark Interior/Wall,"A shadowy, indeterminate background that emphasizes the luminosity of the figures and objects.",Across the entire background/upper quadrant.
SK-A-1574.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Laughing man (Peasant),"A man in a pink/red doublet and purple breeches, laughing heartily while holding a large metal tankard.","Seated on the left, facing the viewer."
,People,Man filling a pipe,"An older man wearing a blue cap and dark cloak, focused on preparing a long clay tobacco pipe.",Seated at the center table.
,People,Standing man,"A man in dark blue clothing and a red cap, holding a glass and looking toward the seated men.","Standing to the right of the center table, near the hearth."
,People,Seated man by fire,"A man wearing a wide-brimmed hat and grey-blue coat, leaning back in a chair with his head tilted up.","Seated on the far right, near the fireplace."
,Furniture,Circular tavern table,"A simple, three-legged wooden trestle table used for smoking and drinking.",Center of the room.
,Furniture,Ladder-back chair,A high-backed wooden chair with horizontal slats.,"Far right, occupied by the leaning man."
,Furniture,Wooden stool,"A small, sturdy square stool used as a side table for drinking vessels.",Lower center-right foreground.
,Furniture,Small wooden bench,"A low, simple bench holding a basin.",Far left mid-ground.
,Furniture,Cabinet/Cupboard,A dark wooden storage unit with a shelf on top.,"Background, left side."
,Vessels,Pewter tankard (held),"A large, lidded metal drinking vessel with a handle.",Held by the laughing man on the left.
,Vessels,Pewter tankard (on stool),A tall metal flagon or tankard with a lid.,Resting on the stool in the foreground.
,Vessels,Westerwald stoneware jug,"A large ceramic pitcher decorated with blue cobalt glaze patterns, typical of 17th-century German stoneware.","On the floor, lower left."
,Vessels,Wine glass (Roemer),"A glass with a green-tinted, studded stem, partially filled with a light-colored liquid.",Held by the laughing man and another on the table.
,Smoking Equipment,Clay tobacco pipes,"Long-stemmed white ""Gouda-style"" clay pipes, some whole and some broken.","On the table, on the stool, and scattered on the floor."
,Smoking Equipment,Tobacco embers/coal,Small glowing pieces used to light the pipes.,On the table and near the seated men.
,Clothing/Accessories,Blue cap,A soft fabric cap worn by the man at the table.,"Center, on the man's head."
,Clothing/Accessories,Red cap (standing man),"A tall, soft red cap.","Right-center, on the standing man's head."
,Clothing/Accessories,Wide-brimmed hat,"A dark, floppy hat with a red ribbon.","Lying on the floor, far lower left."
,Interior Architecture,Fireplace/Hearth,"A large open chimney with a mantelpiece, typical of a 17th-century inn.","Background, right side."
,Interior Architecture,Shelving,A wooden shelf holding various small bottles and jars.,"Background, upper left."
,Food/Waste,Plate with fish remains,A wooden or ceramic plate containing bones and scraps of a meal.,"On the floor, bottom center."
,Miscellaneous,Glass fragments,Shards of a broken drinking glass.,"On the floor, lower right."
,Miscellaneous,Cloth/Rag,A white piece of crumpled fabric or linen.,On the stool next to the tankard.
,Miscellaneous,Metal basin,A shallow metal bowl or dish.,"On the small bench, far left."
SK-A-1684.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Person,Young Man,"A youth shown in profile, leaning forward. His face is brightly illuminated by the candle he holds, highlighting his youthful features and fair skin.","Center and upper right, leaning toward the left."
,Clothing,Beret (Cap),"A dark, large-brimmed velvet beret or hat that obscures the top and back of his head.","Top center, worn on the head."
,Clothing,Feather (Plume),"A prominent, bright red-orange feather attached to the hat, catching the light and providing a bold splash of color.","Left of the man's face, hanging from the hat."
,Clothing,Jacket / Cloak,"A dark, heavy garment, likely a cloak or doublet, that blends into the deep shadows of the background.","Covering the torso and arms, extending to the right edge."
,Light Source,Candle,"A lit candle held in the figure's hand. The flame is partially obscured by a piece of paper, creating a ""chiaroscuro"" effect with dramatic light and shadow.","Lower left-center, held in the hands."
,Household Item,Paper (Sconce),"A piece of paper held around the candle, acting as a makeshift reflector or shield to direct the light toward the man's face.","Lower left, held in front of the candle."
,Furniture,Table / Workbench,"A rough-hewn wooden surface, partially visible and catching the low light from the candle.",Bottom left corner.
,Tool,Pipe,"A long-stemmed clay pipe lying on the wooden surface, suggesting a moment of rest or a domestic setting.",On the table in the bottom left corner.
,Tool,Tobacco / Small Objects,"Indistinct small items, possibly related to smoking (like tobacco fragments or a tool), resting near the pipe.",On the table in the bottom left corner.
,Identification,Artist's Signature / Date,"Faintly visible text inscribed on the dark background wall, likely identifying the artist (Godfried Schalcken) and the date.","Upper right corner, on the background wall."
,Background,Interior Wall,"A dark, nondescript background that emphasizes the light source and the figure through extreme contrast.","Spans the entire background, most visible in the upper right."
SK-A-1713.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Philosopher / Scholar,"An elderly man with a white beard and a red cap (baret). He sits in a slumped, contemplative pose with his head resting on his left hand—a classic artistic shorthand for melancholy or deep reflection.","Right-center, seated in a chair."
,Furniture,Desk / Worktable,A heavy wooden table covered with a green cloth that drapes almost to the floor.,"Left-center, supporting the main still-life elements."
,Furniture,Scholar's Chair,A high-backed wooden chair with visible armrests where the scholar is seated.,"Right-center, behind the philosopher."
,Scholarly Object,Large Folio (Book),"A massive, open book with parchment pages showing faint lines suggesting text. Its size emphasizes the weight of academic pursuit.","Center, propped up on the table."
,Scholarly Object,Celestial Globe,"A spherical globe mounted on a wooden stand, used to represent the heavens or the earth, signifying the scholar's interest in the physical and metaphysical world.","Left side, on top of the desk behind the large book."
,Scholarly Object,Loose Papers / Manuscripts,"Several thin, yellowish sheets of paper or parchment, some with visible writing, cascading over the edge of the table.","Center-left, draped over the front edge of the table."
,Scholarly Object,Additional Books (Table),A stack of smaller bound books tucked beneath or beside the larger open volume.,"Left side, on the desk under the globe."
,Scholarly Object,Stacked Books (Floor),"A thick, bound volume lying flat on the floor, suggesting a room overflowing with knowledge or perhaps the neglect of material study.","Bottom-right corner, on the floor."
,Scholarly Object,Leather Case / Satchel,A dark leather pouch or book-binding case lying near a loose sheet of paper.,"Bottom-left corner, on the floor."
,Architecture,Hanging Lantern,"A dim, metallic or glass lantern hanging from the ceiling or a wall bracket, providing a faint secondary light source.","Upper-center, suspended in the background."
,Architecture,Fireplace / Hearth,"A large, dark architectural feature, likely a stone fireplace mantel, fading into the shadows.","Far right, background."
,Architecture,Arched Doorway,"A dark, recessed arched opening that suggests an entrance to another part of the dwelling.","Far left, background."
,Personal Item,Red Scholar's Cap,"A soft red cap worn by the philosopher, typical attire for academics and doctors of the era.",On the philosopher's head.
,Personal Item,Heavy Cloak,"A thick, dark brown or reddish-brown robe that envelops the figure, emphasizing the chill or isolation of the study.",Wrapped around the philosopher's body.
SK-A-1756.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Barber-Surgeon (The Operator),"An older man with a long beard and a dark cap, leaning intensely over the patient’s foot with a small sharp tool.","Right foreground, seated on a low stool."
,Figures,The Patient,"A man in a blue tunic and red cap, standing with one leg raised; his face is contorted in a grimace of pain.","Center foreground, standing."
,Figures,Witness/Assistant,"A bearded man in a brown cloak and hood holding a walking stick, watching the procedure closely.","Center background, standing behind the patient."
,Figures,Background Figures,Two individuals (likely a man and a woman) hunched over; one appears to be undergoing a head or ear treatment.,"Left background, obscured by shadows."
,Furniture,Operation Block/Stool,A heavy wooden block or bench used to support the patient’s leg during the procedure.,Lower right center.
,Furniture,Cabinet (Kas),"A large, dark, ornate wooden cabinet or cupboard, likely for storing medical supplies.","Left background, against the wall."
,Medical/Still Life,Alberello (Drug Jar),"A blue and white ceramic jar, likely containing ointments or antiseptics.","Bottom right, on the floor."
,Medical/Still Life,Glass Flask,"A glass vessel containing a red liquid (possibly wine, blood, or a chemical tincture).","Far right, on a small wooden ledge."
,Medical/Still Life,White Linens,"A white cloth or bandage draped over the wooden block, stained with small spots of blood.","Center right, draped over the block."
,Medical/Still Life,Basin and Bowl,A metal basin and a shallow bowl used for washing or catching fluids.,Bottom right corner.
,Vanitas Symbols,Human Skull,"A skull resting atop a large, open book, symbolizing the brevity of life (Memento Mori).",Bottom left corner.
,Vanitas Symbols,Large Open Book,"A thick, worn folio or manuscript, possibly a medical text or a Bible.","Bottom left corner, under the skull."
,Decor/Architecture,Doorway,A partially open wooden door leading to another room or the outside.,Right background.
,Decor/Architecture,Wall Plaque/Cartouche,"A decorative stone or plaster relief on the wall, possibly indicating the surgeon's guild or status.","Right center, on the wall above the surgeon."
,Decor/Architecture,Bust/Statue,A small bust or figurine resting on the top of the doorway and another atop the cabinet.,Top center and top right.
SK-A-1906.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Seated Cavalier (Hearing),"A man in a lavish red/pink doublet and black breeches, looking directly at the viewer while holding a lute.","Center-left foreground, seated in a wooden chair."
,Figures,Seated Woman (Smell/Sight),"A woman in a dark green dress with a wide white lace collar (ruff), holding a glass of wine and glancing toward the viewer.","Center-right foreground, seated at the table."
,Figures,Servant/Pourer (Taste),"A young boy or servant in an orange outfit, leaning forward to pour liquid from a jug into a glass.","Far-left midground, standing by a small side table."
,Figures,Standing Musicians,Two men in wide-brimmed hats and fashionable jerkins; one appears to be tuning or playing a violin.,"Center midground, behind the seated cavalier and woman."
,Figures,Group of Revelers,"A cluster of men and women leaning in toward each other, engaged in conversation or flirting.","Far-right midground, gathered at the end of the table."
,Animals,Hunting Dog (Spaniel),"A brown and white dog lying calmly on the floor, symbolizing fidelity or domesticity.","Lower-left foreground, near the seated man's feet."
,Furniture,Banquet Table,"A long wooden table covered with a dark cloth, holding glasses and food remnants.","Center midground, extending toward the right."
,Furniture,Sideboard / Credence,"A small table covered with a white cloth, holding extra glassware and serving vessels.","Far-left background, against the wall."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A simple ladder-back chair with a green cushion, typical of 17th-century Dutch interiors.","Center-left foreground, supporting the main figure."
,Interior Elements,Leaded Glass Window,"A tall, narrow window with rectangular panes, allowing ""natural"" light to stream into the room.",Upper-left background.
,Interior Elements,Framed Paintings,Two horizontal landscapes or seascapes hanging on the plain plaster wall.,"Upper-center background, above the figures."
,Objects,Rapier / Sword,"A long sword with a decorative hilt lying flat on the floor, suggesting a temporary reprieve from military or social duty.","Bottom-right foreground, on the floorboards."
,Objects,Large Ewer / Jug,"A dark, rounded ceramic or metal jug sitting on the floor.",Bottom-left corner foreground.
,Objects,Glassware (Roemer/Flute),"Various wine glasses, including a tall ""flute"" held by the woman and several on the side table.",Scattered across the tables and held by figures.
,Musical Instruments,Lute,"A stringed instrument with a rounded back, held by the central seated man.",Center-left foreground.
,Musical Instruments,Violin,A smaller stringed instrument held by the standing man in the center.,Center midground.
SK-A-1940.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Main Wine Taster (Cavalier),"A man in a brown jerkin with white lace collar/cuffs and a wide-brimmed hat. He looks upward, holding a glass.","Left-center, foreground."
,People,Young Woman,"A woman in a light-colored bodice and dark skirt, standing elegantly while watching the man.","Center, middle ground."
,People,Secondary Cavalier,"A man in a blue/yellow doublet with a feathered hat, standing next to the woman.","Center-right, middle ground."
,People,Servant/Onlooker,"A man leaning over the wine barrels, wearing a simple cap and dark vest.","Right, background."
,People,Distant Figure,"A figure partially obscured, standing near the back of the barrel row.","Far right, background."
,Glassware,Berkemeyer or Roemer Glass,"A green or clear glass held high, filled with white wine to be inspected for clarity.","Upper left-center, held by the main man."
,Furniture,Wooden Workbench/Trestle,"A sturdy, low wooden table used to hold various cellar tools.","Lower left, foreground."
,Cellar Tools,Bellows (Blaasbalg),"A large, circular wooden and leather tool used for blowing air.","On the wooden bench, lower left."
,Cellar Tools,Siphoning Hose / Pipe,"A long, flexible dark tube used for transferring wine between vessels.","Draped over the bench and floor, lower left."
,Cellar Tools,Funnels and Flasks,Metal or ceramic funnels and a small bottle sitting on a high shelf.,"Top left, on the stone mantle/ledge."
,Cellar Tools,Buckets and Basins,"Copper or wooden vessels, some overturned, used for catching drips or cleaning.","On the floor, bottom left and bottom right."
,Storage,Wine Barrels (Vaten),"A long row of large wooden casks with metal hoops, resting on wooden supports.","Entire right side, middle to background."
,Architecture,Stone Columns,Classicizing pillars with ornate capitals supporting the cellar vault.,"Right side, background."
,Architecture,Fireplace / Mantle,"A large, simple stone hearth structure.","Left side, background."
,Architecture,Arched Window/Niche,"A small, high opening in the stone wall allowing a faint light source.","Upper right, background."
,Clothing,Plumed Hats,Felt hats decorated with expensive ostrich or swan feathers.,Worn by the two central male figures.
,Clothing,Lace Collar (Millstone/Flat),Intricate white needlework indicating high social status.,Worn by the main taster and the woman.
SK-A-2110.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Architecture,Raised Stone Threshold,"A large, rounded stone step where the woman sits, separating the interior from the exterior.","Bottom foreground, extending from left to right."
,Architecture,Doorframe / Portal,"A heavy wooden frame that acts as a ""painting within a painting,"" boxing in the central figure.",Surrounding the woman in the center.
,Architecture,Leaded Glass Window,A window with a wooden frame and metal cames; a red curtain is partially visible behind it.,"Right-hand side, mid-ground level."
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,Classic Dutch checkered floor tiles in a black and white (or dark/light) pattern.,"Bottom right corner, behind the woman."
,Figures,Maidservant / Woman,"A young woman in modest dress (brown bodice, white collar, blue skirt) focused on her work.",Seated centrally on the threshold.
,Furniture,Green Upholstered Chair,"A high-backed wooden chair with a green velvet or cloth seat, accented with brass studs.","Mid-ground, right of the woman."
,Household Items,Broom,A traditional straw or birch twig broom with a long wooden handle leaning against the wall.,"Left of the woman, leaning against the doorframe."
,Household Items,Slipper / Shoe,A single brown mule or slipper that the woman has kicked off while sitting.,"On the stone step, just to the right of the woman’s feet."
,Household Items,Keys,Two metal keys hanging from a dark cord or ribbon against the light wall.,"Background, visible through the doorway behind the woman."
,Household Items,Birdcage,"A small, square wire cage hanging in the distance, containing a small bird.","Far background, centered through the inner doorway."
,Food / Labor,Apples,Small yellow/red apples; one is being peeled while others rest in her lap.,Held in the woman's hands and lap.
,Food / Labor,Apple Peel,"A long, thin spiral of apple skin curling down from the fruit.",Falling from her hands toward the floor.
,Art & Decor,Framed Painting (Top),"A large horizontal painting in an ornate, heavy gilded (gold) frame.","Top center, above the interior doorway."
,Art & Decor,Framed Painting (Inner),"A smaller, dark vertical painting hanging on a back wall.","Visible through the doorway, directly behind the woman."
,Nature / Exterior,Birds (Free),Two white birds (likely gulls or doves) flying freely in the sky.,"Left background, visible through the open exterior door."
,Nature / Exterior,Distant Building,A stone structure with a classical balcony or porch visible in the outdoor light.,"Far left, through the open doorway."
SK-A-2180.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Gaming Table,"A heavy, round wooden table with a thick pedestal base.",Center-left of the composition.
,Furniture,Cradle,"A wicker or wooden infant's rocker covered with a heavy, draped cloth.",Lower right corner.
,Furniture,Bench,"A simple, rustic wooden bench used for seating by the central figures.","Center-right, supporting the pipe-smoking man."
,Furniture,Seating Barrel,"A large wooden barrel repurposed as a stool, topped with a soft cushion.","Lower left, supporting the man in the white jacket."
,Games & Leisure,Backgammon Board,"A hinged wooden ""tric-trac"" board shown open on the table for play.",On top of the central table.
,Games & Leisure,Playing Cards,"Scattered, thin rectangular slips of paper lying on the floor.","Forefront, on the ground below the table."
,Gaming Gear,Gaming Dice,Small white cubes used for the board game or betting.,On the floor and near the table edge.
,Tableware,Pitcher/Stein,"A ceramic or stoneware jug with a handle, likely for ale or beer.","On the floor near the man's feet, center-right."
,Smoking Accoutrements,Clay Pipe,"A long-stemmed, white ""Gouda-style"" clay pipe held by the central man.",Held to the mouth of the seated man in the center.
,Smoking Accoutrements,Tobacco Braizer,A small ceramic pot containing embers for lighting pipes.,On the floor near the barrel stool.
,Kitchenware,Cooking Pan (Skillet),A long-handled metal pan lying discarded among other debris.,"Lower center, on the floor."
,Kitchenware,Wooden Spoon,"A rustic, carved wooden utensil lying near the pan.",Lower center foreground.
,Clothing,Flat Cap,"A dark, floppy fabric hat worn by the man on the left.","Top-left, on the man's head."
,Clothing,Apron,A heavy-duty fabric garment worn by the woman for domestic tasks.,Worn by the seated woman on the right.
,Miscellaneous,Coin/Token,A small metal piece used for betting or payment.,On the table surface near the backgammon board.
,Architecture,Fireplace Mantle,"A large, dark overhang forming the upper boundary of the interior.","Upper background, spanning the left and center."
,Architecture,Chalk Tally Board,A dark slate or wooden plank with chalk markings for keeping score.,Leaning against the base of the table.
SK-A-2320-A.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Nursing Mother,"A young woman wearing a white headscarf, a red jacket with fur trim, and a yellow skirt. She is looking directly at the viewer while nursing.","Right foreground, seated."
,Figures,Infant,"A baby wrapped in green and tan swaddling clothes, nursing at the mother's breast.",Held by the mother in the right foreground.
,Figures,Barber-Surgeon,A man in a brown tunic performing a procedure (likely a tooth extraction or uvula check) on a patient.,"Background, left-center."
,Figures,Patient,"A man seated in a chair, head tilted back and mouth open, undergoing treatment.","Background, left."
,Figures,Elderly Assistant,"An older woman in a red dress and white cap, holding a basin to assist the surgeon.","Background, standing behind the patient."
,Furniture,Wicker Cradle,"A traditional hooded infant cradle made of woven wicker, containing striped linens.","Center foreground, on the floor."
,Furniture,Canopy Bed,"A large bed with heavy red curtains, typical of a 17th-century Dutch domestic interior.","Middle ground, right-center."
,Furniture,Table with Cloth,A small table covered with a rich red textured cloth.,"Center, behind the cradle."
,Furniture,Turned Chair,"A dark wood ""X-frame"" or ""Lutheran"" style chair with a red cushioned seat.","Left foreground, angled toward the scene."
,Lighting,Brass Chandelier,A multi-armed polished brass chandelier hanging from the ceiling.,"Upper center, hanging from the rafters."
,Lighting,Candlestick,A two-branched metal candlestick (doubling as a mirror stand) holding two white candles.,"On the table, center-right."
,Containers,Silver Ewer & Basin,"A tall, ornate silver or pewter pitcher sitting on a matching plate/basin.","On the table, left side."
,Containers,Wicker Basket,"A small, round lidded basket with a cloth draped over the side.","Bottom right corner, on the floor."
,Architecture,Drapery / Curtains,"Large, heavy dark green and patterned curtains pulled back to reveal the room.","Framing the top, left, and right edges of the composition."
,Architecture,Arched Niche,A recessed stone archway where the barber-surgeon's practice is located.,"Background, left side."
,Decor,Deer Antlers (Trophy),A mounted set of stag antlers attached to the wall above the bed area.,"Upper background, center-left."
,Decor,Stuffed Crocodile/Fish,"A long, preserved aquatic specimen hanging from the ceiling of the medical niche.","Background, upper left (inside the niche)."
,Misc.,Open Book,"A large volume, possibly a Bible or household ledger, lying open on the table.","Center, on the red table cloth."
SK-A-2320-B.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,School Desk / Table,"A simple, rustic wooden table used for writing and supporting the primary light source.","Center foreground, between the seated children."
,Furniture,Wooden Stool,A basic four-legged wooden stool with a flat seat.,"Lower left, supporting the girl in the red bodice."
,Furniture,Bench/Chair,"A dark, simple seat mostly obscured by shadows.","Lower right, supporting the boy writing with a quill."
,Lighting,Candlestick & Candle,"A tall, slender candle held in a dark metal holder, acting as the primary light source for the students.","Center, resting on the table."
,Lighting,Floor Lantern,"A large, ornate metal lantern with a decorative pierced top and a glass door slightly ajar; it contains a glowing candle.","Lower right foreground, on the floor."
,Lighting,Handheld Lantern,"A small, glowing lantern held by a figure in the background to illuminate their immediate path.","Upper center, in the mid-ground."
,Writing Tools,Quill Pen,A feather quill used for writing on paper.,"Mid-right, held by the boy seated at the table."
,Writing Tools,Slate & Stylus,A framed chalkboard (slate) being used for drawing or arithmetic.,"Mid-left, held by the girl in the red bodice."
,Writing Tools,Paper / Parchment,Sheets of paper used for writing exercises.,"Mid-right, on the table under the boy's hand."
,Clothing,Red Bodice/Dress,"A vibrant red upper garment with dark sleeves, providing a pop of color against the dark room.","Lower left, worn by the seated girl."
,Clothing,Headscarf,A light-colored fabric wrap covering the hair.,"Mid-left, worn by the girl with the slate."
,Clothing,Soft Cap / Hat,"A dark, simple cap worn by the standing figure.","Center-left, worn by the boy leaning over the slate."
,Architecture,Archway,"A dark, curved architectural element suggesting a large, vaulted room or basement.",Upper left background.
,Architecture,Floorboards,"Wide, wooden planks that catch the long shadows cast by the floor lantern.",Bottom foreground.
,Human Figures,Girl Writing on Slate,"A young girl focused on her slate, illuminated brightly by the candle.",Lower left-center.
,Human Figures,Boy Writing with Quill,"A young boy concentrated on his writing, seen in profile.",Lower right-center.
,Human Figures,Standing Youth,"A figure leaning over the girl's shoulder, pointing at or observing the slate.","Center, standing behind the table."
,Human Figures,Background Students,"Faint, shadowy figures of other children seated and working in the distance.",Mid-right background.
,Human Figures,Figure with Lantern,An individual emerging from or retreating into the darkness with a light source.,Upper center background.
SK-A-2320-C.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Man / Scholar,"An elderly man with glasses, wearing a heavy brown/ochre robe over a yellow tunic. He is intensely focused on his task, his face illuminated by the candle.","Center-middle, seated on a chair facing left."
,Furniture,Writing Slope / Desk,"A wooden, angled writing desk with a dark finish. It serves as the primary workspace for the man.","Center-left, positioned in front of the man."
,Light Source,Candle,"A single white candle in a shallow metal holder. It is lit with a bright yellow-white flame, providing the sole light source (chiaroscuro effect).","Mid-left, sitting atop the writing slope."
,Tools,Quill Pen,"A long, slender feather quill held firmly by the man as he prepares it for writing.","Center-mid, held in the man’s hands near the candle flame."
,Tools,Penknife,"A small, sharp blade used for ""versnijden"" (trimming) the tip of the quill to create a precise writing edge.","Center-mid, in the man's right hand, pressed against the quill."
,Measurement,Hourglass,"A classic sandglass in a wooden frame, symbolizing the passage of time and the ""memento mori"" theme common in Dutch art.","Far-left, standing on the flat surface of the table behind the desk."
,Furniture,Chair,"A wooden chair with a high back and vertical slats, typical of 17th-century Dutch domestic furniture.","Center-right, supporting the man."
,Architecture,Niche / Window,"A dark, recessed architectural feature, possibly a stone window frame or a shelf unit with shutters.","Background-right, behind the man."
,Furniture,Table Base,"An ornate, scrolled wooden leg or support structure for the writing table.","Lower-left, beneath the desk surface."
,Clothing,Spectacles,"Small, round-rimmed glasses perched on the man's nose to assist with the delicate task of trimming.","Center-mid, on the man's face."
,Textiles,Wall Hanging / Curtain,"Dark, heavy fabric draped in the upper section of the room, adding to the enclosed, intimate atmosphere.",Upper-left and top background.
SK-A-2330.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Young Woman,"A smiling, blonde woman with a direct gaze, wearing a low-cut dress and an elaborate feathered hat.","Center to right foreground, facing the viewer."
,Furniture,Mirror,"A large, square, dark-framed mirror reflecting the woman's profile and hand.","Left side, angled towards the woman."
,Reflection,Mirrored Image,"The woman's profile reflection, appearing slightly more somber and less detailed than her actual face.",Within the mirror frame on the left.
,Jewelry,Pearl Earring,"A single, large, shimmering white teardrop pearl dangling from her ear.","Right of her face, attached to her earlobe."
,Clothing,Feathered Hat (Toque),"A voluminous hat adorned with large, soft white and grey ostrich feathers.",On top of her head.
,Clothing,Striped Bodice,A dress with broad vertical stripes of dark blue/black and rose-pink or reddish-brown.,Covering her torso and upper arm.
,Clothing,Lace Trim,"Delicate, intricate yellow or golden-toned lace bordering her shawl or chemise.",Along her neckline and the edge of her shawl in the lower center.
,Accessory,Shawl/Wrap,"A translucent, yellowish-brown fabric draped over her shoulders.",Over her chest and arms.
,Accessory,Trinket Box,"A small, open rectangular silver or pewter box, possibly for jewelry or cosmetic patches.","On the table, bottom left."
,Accessory,Cosmetic Patch / Coin,A small circular object lying inside the open trinket box.,"Inside the box on the table, bottom left."
,Furniture,Table / Surface,"A flat surface covered with a dark blue or black cloth, possibly velvet.","Bottom foreground, supporting the mirror and box."
,Gesture,Pointing Finger,The woman's index finger pointing directly toward her reflection.,"Center-left, between her body and the mirror."
,Gesture,Reflected Pointing Finger,The mirrored hand's index finger pointing back at the woman.,"Within the mirror, pointing right."
SK-A-2332.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Standing Peasant (Skaters),"A man in a tall grey hat, red waistcoat, and white trousers; he appears to be the central focus, looking toward the group.","Center-left, standing in front of the hearth"
,Figures,Seated Smoker,"A man seated on a low wooden chair, holding a long clay pipe and wearing a purple-brown tunic.","Center, seated facing right"
,Figures,Mother and Child,A woman in a white headscarf holding a small child; she appears to be feeding or tending to the infant.,Bottom right foreground
,Figures,Group of Carousers,"Three additional male figures huddled together, one wearing a large brown hat, engaged in conversation or drinking.","Right side, mid-ground behind the mother"
,Figures,Boy by the fire,"A small child or young boy crouched low, facing away from the viewer toward the warmth.","Left of the standing man, near the floor"
,Architecture,Large Chimney/Hearth,"A massive, protruding masonry fireplace and chimney breast that dominates the room's structure.","Center background, extending to the ceiling"
,Architecture,Leaded Glass Window,"A tall window with diamond-shaped glass panes held in a lead lattice, letting in a pale, cold light.",Far left wall
,Architecture,Wooden Ceiling Beams,"Heavy, dark timber beams running horizontally across the top of the room.",Top of the composition
,Furniture,Three-legged Stool,"A rustic wooden stool or ""cricket"" holding a pewter pitcher.",Lower left foreground
,Furniture,Low Wooden Chair,"A simple, straight-backed wooden chair used by the seated smoker.",Center-right foreground
,Furniture,Side Table,"A small wooden table covered with a white cloth, holding various items.","Far left, below the window"
,Vessels,Pewter Pitcher (Kanne),"A metallic, lidded jug typical of 17th-century Dutch households.","On the stool, lower left"
,Vessels,Ceramic Bowl/Plate,"A shallow dish containing food items, possibly bread or meat.","On the side table, far left"
,Personal Items,Ice Skates,"A pair of wooden-based skates with curled metal blades, laid on the floor.","Lower right foreground, on the floor"
,Personal Items,Clay Pipe,"A long-stemmed white ""Gouda"" style clay pipe used for tobacco.","Held by the seated man, center"
,Personal Items,Dagger/Knife,A small utility knife tucked into the waistband or belt of the standing man.,"Waist of the standing figure, center-left"
,Animals,Small White Dog,"A fluffy, light-colored dog sitting on the floor, watching the group.",Bottom center-right
,Household Items,Lantern,A small metal and glass lantern hanging from the side of the fireplace mantle.,Left side of the chimney breast
,Household Items,Fire Shovel/Peel,A long-handled flat tool used for tending the fire or moving bread.,"Leaning against the wall, left of the fireplace"
,Household Items,Wicker Basket,A woven basket tucked partially under the side table.,Far lower left corner
,Household Items,Birdcage,"A small, square wooden cage hanging near the window.",High on the far left wall
SK-A-2426.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Elderly Man (Tax Collector/Lawyer),"An older man with a grey beard wearing a red chaperon (hooded hat) and a dark robe. He has a furrowed brow and a hand placed on his chest, appearing to be in mid-conversation.","Foreground, Left side, seated."
,Figures,Man (Client/Peasant),"A middle-aged man with a concerned or pleading expression, wearing a dark tunic and holding a fur-lined hat or bag to his chest.","Middle ground, Upper Right."
,Figures,Young Boy,A child with light hair wearing a blue doublet with a wide collar. He looks off to the side with a neutral expression while carrying a bird.,"Foreground, Lower Right."
,Animals,Rooster/Cockerel,"A brown and gold feathered rooster being held by the boy; it likely represents a form of ""payment in kind"" or a bribe.","Foreground, Lower Right, held by the child."
,Documents,Legal Document / Receipt,"A piece of parchment with cursive script and a prominent heading, held firmly by the elderly man.","Foreground, Center-Left."
,Documents,Ledger / Book,"An open book with dense text, positioned behind the boy, suggesting a record-keeping environment.","Middle ground, Right side."
,Documents,Loose Papers,Several curled and folded papers tucked into a wooden shelf or rack.,"Background, Top Left."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A dark wood chair with a rounded armrest (finial), where the elderly man is seated.","Foreground, Far Left."
,Furniture,Wooden Cabinet/Shelf,"A dark, rustic wooden structure used for storing documents and various office sundries.","Background, Left and Center."
,Architecture,Window Frame,"A small, square interior window or opening in the wall, looking into another dark space.","Background, Center."
,Clothing,Red Chaperon,"A traditional 15th-16th century headpiece made of bright red fabric, draped over the man's shoulder.","Foreground, Top Left (on head)."
,Clothing,Blue Doublet,"A buttoned blue garment with a structured collar, indicating a higher quality of dress than the peasant.","Foreground, Lower Right (on boy)."
,Personal Effects,Fur-lined Hat/Pouch,"A brown, textured object held by the man in the back, possibly a hat removed out of respect or a pouch for money.","Middle ground, Center-Right."
SK-A-2555.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Father/Peasant Man,"Depicted wearing a dark blue-grey jacket and a broad-brimmed hat, leaning over the table while eating from a spoon.","Center-background, seated behind the table."
,Figures,Young Child (Daughter),"Shown from the back, wearing a green jacket, a long reddish-brown skirt, a white apron, and a white bonnet.","Center-foreground, standing with back to viewer."
,Figures,Older Boy/Man,"A secondary figure wearing a dark hat, partially obscured, appearing to eat or watch the others.","Middle-ground, right of the father."
,Figures,Elderly Woman/Grandmother,"Depicted with a pink headscarf and a white apron, seated in a high-backed wooden chair.","Middle-ground, far right."
,Furniture,Trestle Table,"A simple, rough-hewn wooden table used for the meal.",Center of the room.
,Furniture,High-backed Chair,"A primitive wooden chair with a tall back, occupied by the elderly woman.","Middle-ground, right side."
,Furniture,Small Stool,"A low wooden stool or footstool with a circular cutout on top and a letter ""B"" carved on the side.","Foreground, far right."
,Cookware/Ceramics,Large Earthenware Pot,A red earthenware cooking pot with legs (tripod) sitting on the wooden floor.,"Foreground, bottom left."
,Cookware/Ceramics,Three-legged Jug/Pitcher,A ceramic pitcher with three legs and a chipped rim standing on the floor.,"Foreground, center-left."
,Cookware/Ceramics,Cooking Pan/Skillet,"A dark, shallow earthenware pan or porringer sitting on the table.","Center, on the table."
,Cookware/Ceramics,Storage Jar,"A large, rounded ceramic jar or ""baardman"" style vessel.","Background, far left near the hearth."
,Cookware/Ceramics,Small Bowls/Dishes,Small red earthenware dishes or dipping bowls near the main pot.,"Foreground, bottom left corner."
,Utensils,Wooden Spoons,"Large wooden spoons, one held by the father and another lying on the floor.",Various: Father's hand and bottom left floor.
,Architecture,Fireplace/Hearth,A large stone or plaster fireplace structure with a small fire visible at the base.,"Background, far left."
,Architecture,Wall Sconce/Candle,"A simple metal bracket holding a single candle, mounted to the fireplace.","Background, upper left corner."
,Household Items,Broom,A traditional twig broom leaning against the wall.,"Background, far right."
,Household Items,Drapery/Cloth,A white cloth or towel draped over the back of the grandmother's chair.,"Middle-ground, far right."
SK-A- 2562.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Machinery,Floor Loom,A massive wooden timber frame used for weaving. It dominates the scene with its horizontal beams and vertical posts.,"Center-left, extending towards the mid-ground."
,Machinery,Spinning Wheel,A large wooden wheel used for preparing yarn; depicted with thin spokes and a simple wooden stand.,"Far left, in the foreground."
,People,The Weaver,"A man in a red jacket and dark cap, leaning over the loom, seemingly engaged in conversation.","Center, seated/standing behind the loom."
,People,The Apprentice/Visitor,"A younger man in a brown tunic and tan hat, leaning on the front beam of the loom while talking to the weaver.","Center-right, leaning over the loom."
,Furniture,Ladder-back Chair,"A wooden chair with a rush (woven) seat, slightly tilted and appearing somewhat worn.","Mid-ground, to the right of the loom."
,Furniture,Wooden Sideboard/Chest,"A dark, sturdy cabinet or cupboard used for storage, with several items resting on top.","Right side, against the back wall."
,Domestic Items,Wicker Cradle,"A small, hooded basket-style bassinet for an infant, indicating the workshop is also a home.","Far right, on the floor in the mid-ground."
,Containers,Wooden Barrels,"Two rounded wooden casks sitting atop the sideboard, likely for storage of supplies or liquids.","Right side, on the cupboard."
,Containers,Wicker Basket,"A tall, narrow woven basket sitting on the floor near the chair.","Foreground, right of center."
,Containers,Wooden Tub/Bucket,"A large, open wooden wash-tub or bucket resting on the floor.","Far right, in the immediate foreground."
,Tools,Broom,"A long-handled brush or broom lying flat on the floor, used for cleaning the workshop.","Foreground, extending from the center toward the right."
,Tools,Reel/Winder,A wooden frame on the floor (near the loom) used for winding thread.,"Foreground, left of center."
,Architecture,Lattice Window,"A window with small, diamond-shaped panes and a lead frame, casting a soft, diffused light.","Far left, upper background."
,Architecture,Arched Window/Niche,"A small, arched window with a wooden shutter, partially illuminating the sideboard area.","Upper right, in the back wall."
,Decor/Misc,Birdcage,"A large, rounded wicker cage hanging from the ceiling beams.","Top center, hanging above the figures."
,Decor/Misc,Wall Hanging,"A small, dark, rectangular object (possibly a print or a brush) hanging on the back wall.","Right wall, above the barrels."
,Misc,Letter 'A' Graffito,"A large, capital letter ""A"" etched or painted onto the back wall.","Upper center-right, on the back wall."
SK-A-2568.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Dancing Couple,"A man in a reddish-brown jacket and a woman in a blue dress and white headscarf. They are depicted mid-motion, holding hands and kicking up their feet in a vigorous, rustic dance.","Foreground, Left"
,Figures,Fiddler (Violinist),"A musician standing on an elevated platform (an upturned barrel). He wears a blue jacket and a floppy hat, focusing intently on playing his fiddle to provide music for the dancers.","Center, Middle ground"
,Figures,Drinking Man,"A man in a white shirt and blue trousers standing with his legs braced. He is tilting his head back, holding a tall, narrow glass (flute) or jug to his mouth, mid-drink.","Foreground, Right"
,Figures,Slumbering Man,"A man in a teal jacket slumped back in a relaxed, possibly drunken stupor. His eyes are closed, and his posture is limp against a wooden structure.","Center-Right, Middle ground"
,Figures,Seated Observer,"A figure sitting behind the slumbering man, partially obscured in the shadows, watching the dancers or the musician.","Center, Background"
,Furniture/Storage,Upturned Barrel,A large wooden barrel placed on its end to serve as a makeshift stage or pedestal for the musician.,"Center, Middle ground"
,Vessels,Earthenware Pitcher,"A large, rounded reddish-brown ceramic jug or pitcher sitting on the floor near the slumbering man.",Bottom Center
,Vessels,Drinking Glass/Flute,"A tall, cylindrical glass or ceramic vessel held by the standing man on the right, typical of 17th-century beer or ale service.","Foreground, Right"
,Architecture,Barn Interior,"The setting is a dark, cavernous space with exposed wooden beams and thatched or plank walls, characteristic of a rustic barn or tavern.",Entire Background
,Architecture,Wooden Beams,"Thick, dark structural timber beams that support the roof, visible in the upper sections of the barn.",Upper Background
,Miscellaneous,Hay/Straw,"Loose piles of straw or hay scattered near the walls and under the musician's platform, indicating the building's primary use as a barn.",Right and Background
,Miscellaneous,Wooden Planks,"Loose wooden boards lying on the stone or dirt floor, adding to the ramshackle, cluttered feel of the interior.",Bottom Center/Left
,Musical Instrument,Fiddle (Violin),"A stringed instrument held and played by the musician, rendered with a light wood finish that catches the central light.","Center, Middle ground"
,Storage,Wooden Crate/Stool,A small rectangular wooden box or footstool located near the feet of the drinking man.,Bottom Right
SK-A-2573.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Smoking Man (Peasant),"A man in a white shirt and lavender breeches, reclining back with a relaxed, jovial expression. He holds a long clay tobacco pipe.","Right-of-center, foreground."
,Figures,Woman (Peasant),An older woman wearing a dark bodice and white head covering (headdress). She appears to be leaning over or tending to a large chest.,"Center-left, mid-ground."
,Figures,Kneeling Boy/Man,"A younger figure in a brownish tunic, kneeling or crouching low to the ground near the smoker’s feet.","Lower center, foreground."
,Animals,Dog (Hound/Spaniel type),"A thin, light-colored dog standing near the central figure, looking up or toward the left.","Center, foreground (next to the smoker)."
,Furniture,Wooden Chest/Trunk,"A large, dark wooden trunk or coffer with a heavy lid, which the woman is interacting with.","Left side, mid-ground."
,Furniture,Low Bench/Stool,"A simple, rustic three or four-legged wooden stool or bench.","Lower left, foreground."
,Objects,Clay Tobacco Pipe,"A long-stemmed white ""Gouda"" style clay pipe held by the reclining man.","Held in the smoker's hand, center-right."
,Objects,Brimmed Hat,"A dark, wide-brimmed hat with a feather or ribbon detail hanging on a wooden post or wall.","Upper right, background."
,Objects,Cooking/Storage Pots,Various ceramic or metal vessels (braziers or cooking pots) resting on the floor.,"Lower right, foreground/floor."
,Architecture,Wooden Beams (Trusses),"Large, heavy timber supports forming the skeletal structure of the barn or cottage roof.","Top center and left, extending across the ceiling."
,Architecture,Wooden Partition,A dark wooden vertical structure or wall section that the man is leaning against.,"Far right, mid-ground to background."
,Clothing,Drapery/Cloak,A dark reddish or purple garment or cloth draped over the edge of the trunk.,"Far left, mid-ground."
,Objects,Drinking Vessel,A small glass or cup being held or placed near the woman.,"Center-left, near the woman’s hands."
SK-A-2574.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Upholstered Stool (Left),A wooden stool with turned legs and a plush blue velvet cushion adorned with gold fringe.,"Lower left foreground, occupied by the primary figure."
,Furniture,Upholstered Stool (Right),"A matching stool with blue upholstery and gold trim, partially obscured by the players.","Lower right foreground, occupied by the second player."
,Furniture,Game Table/Pedestal,"A dark, sturdy rectangular table or pedestal supporting the game board.","Center foreground, between the two seated boys."
,Game Equipment,Draughts Board (Checkers),"A wooden board featuring a grid; several small, circular game pieces are visible on its surface.","Center, resting on the table/pedestal."
,Apparel,Red Doublet and Breeches,Richly textured red garment with gold braiding and voluminous white sleeves peeking through.,"Foreground left, worn by the boy looking at the viewer."
,Apparel,Black Doublet and Yellow Hose,A dark jacket paired with bright yellow stockings and red-and-yellow decorative garters.,"Foreground right, worn by the boy focused on the game."
,Apparel,Lace Collars,Delicate white lace or linen collars (cravats) visible at the necks of the primary figures.,Upper torso area of the seated boys.
,Human Figure,Primary Player (Left),"A young man in red, seated with his back to the viewer but looking over his shoulder directly at us.",Foreground left.
,Human Figure,Primary Player (Right),"A youth in black, leaning forward with his hand poised over the board, looking down in concentration.",Foreground right.
,Human Figure,Onlooker (Center),"A boy standing behind the game board, partially in shadow, watching the match.","Middle ground, center-left."
,Human Figure,Standing Youth (Background),"A taller figure in a brown/bronze doublet standing upright, looking toward the right.","Middle ground, center-back."
,Human Figure,Pointing Boy,A boy in the background gesturing with his right hand toward the figure in the doorway.,"Middle ground, right side."
,Human Figure,Distant Figure,"A smaller, less detailed figure standing in a doorway or lit opening.","Background, far right."
,Stationery,Signed Letter/Paper,"A folded piece of paper on the floor containing the artist's signature: ""Michael Sweerts / fecit an 1652 / Roma.""","Bottom right corner, on the floor."
,Architecture,Doorway/Arch,A vertical rectangular opening allowing light to enter from another room.,"Background, far right."
SK-A-2836.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Person,Father / Head of Household,"A seated man in dark, formal 17th-century attire with a wide-brimmed black hat and white ruff collar. He gestures with his right hand.","Center-right foreground, seated."
,Person,Mother / Matron,"A standing woman wearing a black dress with a maroon underskirt, a white lace collar (millstone ruff), and a white cap.","Far right, standing."
,Person,Three Sons,Three young boys dressed in doublet and hose with white collars. One wears a hat; they appear to be of varying ages.,Left side of the composition.
,Person,Older Son / Tutor,"A young man standing behind the parents, wearing a brown cloak and a tall hat.","Background, between the father and mother."
,Animal,Dog,"A small, brown and white spaniel-type dog sniffing the floor.","Bottom center, near the father's feet."
,Furniture,Table,A large rectangular table covered with a decorative red and gold oriental carpet (Persian or Turkish style).,"Center, spanning towards the left."
,Furniture,Chair,A wooden chair with a red upholstered seat upon which the father is seated.,Center-right.
,Scientific Instrument,Terrestrial Globe,"A large globe mounted in a wooden frame, signifying education or global interests.","On top of the table, center."
,Document,Maps and Papers,"Large rolled and flat sheets of paper, likely maps or architectural plans.","On the table, next to the globe."
,Book,Leather-bound Book,"A thick, closed book resting on the table, indicating literacy and wealth.","On the table, right of the globe."
,Architecture,Mantelpiece / Pediment,"A classical stone architectural feature, likely a fireplace mantel with a triangular pediment.","Background, upper right."
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,"A floor made of large, square stone tiles in alternating light and dark shades.","Foreground and midground, bottom of the frame."
,Clothing Accessory,Wide-brimmed Hat,"Several hats are depicted, including the prominent black felt hat worn by the father and the brown hat on the son to the left.",Worn by various figures.
,Textile,Oriental Carpet,A richly patterned red rug with intricate floral and geometric designs draped over the table.,"Center, draped over the table."
SK-A-3023.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Card-playing woman,"A woman in a white blouse, red bodice, and green skirt holds a hand of cards, smiling toward the viewer.","Right of center, seated at the table."
,People,Opposing card player,"A man huddled over his cards, partially obscuring his face with his hand as he studies his hand.","Center, seated behind the table."
,People,Laughing man (kibitzer),"A man in a dark hat leaning in over the table, watching the game with an amused expression.","Far right, seated on a barrel."
,People,Man with pitcher,"A man wearing a red headcloth and dark jacket, leaning forward while holding a large ceramic pitcher.","Lower left-center, seated on a low stool."
,People,Amorous couple,A man in a brown jacket leaning toward a woman in a red bodice; they appear to be flirting or conversing closely.,"Left-center, standing behind the man with the pitcher."
,People,Sleeping man,"A figure slumped over a large barrel, head resting on their arms in a deep sleep.","Mid-ground, far left."
,People,Child,"A young boy sitting on the floor near the shadows, looking down or resting.",Bottom left corner.
,People,Background onlookers,"Various figures in the dim background, including one man raising a hat, observing the central scene.",Center and right background.
,Animals,Dog,"A small, brown-and-white spaniel-type dog sitting upright and looking toward the card players.",Bottom right corner.
,Furniture,Circular table,"A simple, dark wooden pedestal table where the card game is taking place.",Center.
,Furniture,Wooden stool,"A low, four-legged rustic stool used for seating.",Lower left-center.
,Furniture,Ladder-back chair,"A tall wooden chair with horizontal slats, occupied by the main female card player.",Right of center.
,Containers,Large barrels,Heavy wooden casks used for storage and as improvised seating.,Far left and far right.
,Containers,Beer stein (Humpen),"A tall, decorated ceramic or stoneware tankard with a lid, sitting on the floor.","Bottom center, below the table."
,Containers,Ceramic pitcher,"A large, rounded earthenware jug held by one of the men.",Lower left-center.
,Containers,Woven baskets,Baskets stored on a high shelf or loft area in the upper reaches of the room.,Upper left corner.
,Architecture,Wooden beams,Heavy timber framing and rafters that define the interior of the tavern or barn.,Spanning the top and left sides of the frame.
,Architecture,Fireplace/Hearth,A dark architectural feature with a small orange glow from a low fire.,"Far right edge, mid-height."
,Game Pieces,Playing cards,Small rectangular cards held by the players and a few scattered on the tabletop.,"Center, on and around the table."
SK-A-3297.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Person,Carousing Peasant (Main Figure),"A man in a blue tunic and dark trousers, sitting slumped in a chair with legs splayed. He holds a tall ""pasglas"" (measuring glass) in his right hand and a ceramic jug in his left.",Lower left to center foreground.
,Person,Fiddler / Musician,"A man wearing a red cap and a grey jacket, standing and playing a violin. He looks toward the viewer with a slight smile.","Center background, behind the main figure."
,Person,Man lighting a pipe,"A man wearing a brown cap and a yellowish jacket, leaning over a small table or brazier to light a long white clay pipe.",Lower right foreground.
,Person,Man at fireplace,"A figure seen from the back, leaning toward a large hearth or fireplace in the corner.",Right background.
,Musical Instrument,Violin and Bow,"A wooden string instrument held by the standing musician, depicted with realistic highlights on the body.",Center background.
,Glassware,Pasglas (Measuring Glass),"A tall, narrow cylindrical glass used for drinking games, filled with a dark liquid (likely beer). Held aloft by the main figure.","Far left, mid-height."
,Ceramic,Beer Jug / Pitcher,"A rounded, brown ceramic vessel with a handle, likely used to refill glasses. Held by the main figure.","Center-left, near the main figure's hip."
,Smoking Accessory,Gouda Pipe,"A long-stemmed, white clay pipe being used by the seated man on the right.",Lower right.
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A simple, rustic wooden chair with a ladder back, supporting the main carousing figure.",Lower left.
,Furniture,Wooden Stool / Bench,A heavy wooden block or stool upon which the man lighting the pipe is seated.,Lower right.
,Interior Feature,Fireplace / Hearth,"A large, dark opening in the wall with a mantel, typical of 17th-century peasant dwellings.",Far right background.
,Interior Feature,Partition Wall / Post,A vertical wooden structural beam and a rough interior wall separating the spaces.,Center to upper right.
,Food / Animal,Hanging Fish,"Two pale, elongated shapes hanging from the ceiling or wall, likely dried or smoked fish.",Upper center-left and upper right.
,Household Object,Basin / Tub,A large wooden or ceramic container resting on the floor in the shadows.,Far lower left.
,Clothing,Red Cap,"A soft, floppy red hat worn by the fiddler.",Center-top.
,Clothing,Apron,A white cloth tied around the waist of the man lighting the pipe.,Lower right.
SK-A-3338.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Cello Player,"A man with a large-brimmed hat and a yellow/buff jacket, leaning forward while playing.",Center-left
,Figures,Lute Player,"A seated woman in a dark dress with a white lace collar, focused on her instrument.","Left, facing right"
,Figures,Singer,"A woman in a dark gown holding a sheet of music, singing along with the musicians.",Right-center
,Figures,Seated Spectator,"A man seen from the back, wearing a broad hat and a reddish striped doublet.",Lower-left foreground
,Figures,Conversing Couple,"A man and a woman standing in the background, seemingly engaged in a private conversation.",Background-right
,Musical Instruments,Cello (Bass Viol),"A large stringed instrument held between the player's legs, played with a bow.",Center
,Musical Instruments,Lute,A pear-shaped stringed instrument held by the seated woman on the left.,Left
,Furnishings,Fireplace (Mantel),"A large, stone-carved architectural fireplace with a prominent horizontal mantelpiece.",Background-right
,Artworks,Seascape Painting,"A framed painting depicting a sailing ship at sea, mounted above the fireplace.",Upper-right (above mantel)
,Artworks,Wall Map / Hanging,"A large, rectangular document or map hanging on the back wall, slightly faded.",Background-center
,Household Objects,Sheet Music,A white paper or book held by the singing woman to guide her performance.,Right-center
,Household Objects,Glass,A small drinking glass (possibly a roemer) sitting on the floor or a low stool.,Center-foreground (near cello)
,Household Objects,Wooden Stool,"A rustic wooden stool with turned legs, supporting the man in the foreground.",Lower-left
,Architectural,Floorboards,Wide wooden planks that recede toward the back to create a sense of depth.,Foreground/Floor
,Textiles,Ruffs and Collars,Elaborate white lace collars (millstone ruffs) worn by the central figures.,Neck area of figures
SK-A-3477.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figure,Jacob (Patriarch),"An elderly man with a long white beard, shown seated upright in bed, leaning forward to bestow a blessing.","Right-center, seated on the bed facing left."
,Figure,Ephraim (Younger Son),"A young boy, depicted with fair hair and a light-colored tunic, receiving the primary blessing.","Center, standing between Jacob and Joseph."
,Figure,Manasseh (Elder Son),"A boy standing slightly behind or beside his brother, depicted in darker, more sketch-like tones.","Center-left, positioned behind Ephraim."
,Figure,Joseph (Father),"A man in a turban and oriental-style robes, shown supporting Jacob’s hand or guiding the ceremony.","Middle-left, standing and leaning toward the bed."
,Figure,Asenath (Mother),"A woman wearing an ornate, tall headdress, observing the scene with a solemn, thoughtful expression.","Background, center-left, standing behind Joseph and the children."
,Furniture,Four-Poster Bed,"A large bed with heavy, dark drapes and a visible headboard, where the dying Jacob is positioned.",Fills the right and upper-center background.
,Architecture,Bed Curtains,"Thick, gathered fabric drapes hanging from the top of the bed frame, creating a sense of an intimate, enclosed space.",Upper right and upper left corners.
,Textile,Bedclothes/Sheets,Rumpled fabric and blankets covering Jacob's legs and the surface of the bed.,Lower right to center.
,Figure,Attendants/Onlookers,"Faintly sketched figures in the far left, representing other members of the household or witnesses.",Far left periphery.
,Animal,Dog,"A small, curled-up dog sleeping on the floor, symbolizing domestic peace and fidelity.","Bottom right corner, on the floor."
,Furniture,Low Stool or Step,A small wooden block or stool used to assist in getting into the high bed.,"Bottom center, near Jacob's feet."
SK-A-4135.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Person,Michiel Comans,"The artist/calligrapher, standing in black attire with a white collar and head wrap. He holds a palette and a sheet of calligraphy.",Standing on the right side of the composition.
,Person,Elisabeth van der Mersche,"The artist's third wife, seated and wearing a dark red dress with a large white collar and white apron, holding an open book.",Seated on the left side of the composition.
,Person,Young Child,"A small child, likely a family member, appearing from behind a partition or chair.","Center-left, peeking out behind the seated woman."
,Animal,Dog,"A small, dark-colored dog lying on the floor, looking toward the viewer.",Bottom left corner on the floor.
,Animal,Bird,A small bird inside a cage.,"Top left, hanging near the window."
,Furniture,Easel,A wooden artist's easel supporting a large canvas with a preliminary sketch.,"Right background, behind Michiel Comans."
,Furniture,Table/Stool,A small red stool or side table used to hold artist's materials.,"Right side, next to Michiel Comans."
,Furniture,Cabinet,A tall wooden storage cabinet or cupboard.,"Left background, behind the seated woman."
,Furniture,Footstool,A small wooden block used as a footrest by the seated woman.,"Bottom left, under the woman's foot."
,Art Tool,Palette and Brushes,A wooden thumb-hole palette with various paint colors and several brushes held in the artist's hand.,"Right side, held by Michiel Comans."
,Art Tool,Maulstick,A long wooden stick used by painters to steady their hand.,"Right side, held alongside the palette."
,Artwork,Calligraphy Sheet,"A piece of paper with ornate handwriting, held up by the artist.","Center, held by Michiel Comans."
,Artwork,Paintings,Several framed oil paintings of various subjects hanging on the wall.,"Upper background, across the back wall."
,Document,Books,"Large bound volumes, including one marked ""BIBLIA"" (Bible) and another titled ""Architectura"".",Bottom right corner on the floor.
,Document,Maps/Prints,Large rolled and unrolled sheets showing illustrations and geographical layouts.,Bottom center on the floor.
,Object,Flower Vase,"A white ceramic vase containing a variety of colorful flowers, including lilies and carnations.","Left side, on the windowsill."
,Object,Birdcage,A wooden and wire cage for a bird.,Top left corner.
,Object,Sewing Basket,A wicker basket containing white cloth and sewing tools.,"Far left, on the floor next to the woman."
,Architecture,Lead-paned Window,"A window with decorative stained-glass elements at the top, looking out toward a landscape.",Far left side.
,Architecture,Beamed Ceiling,Heavy wooden ceiling beams typical of 17th-century Dutch interiors.,Top of the composition.
SK-A-4246.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,"Five Women (""Klopjes"")","Dressed in somber, modest black gowns with white millstone collars and white caps, signifying their religious devotion and status.",Center and Mid-ground; gathered around the table and seated to the right.
,Furniture,Large Dining Table,"A sturdy, rectangular wooden table covered with a heavy, brown draped cloth.","Center of the room, acting as the focal point."
,Furniture,Clavichord,"A rectangular keyboard instrument on a stand, decorated with a Latin inscription about sharing wealth in old age.","Far right foreground, near the wall."
,Furniture,High Chimney/Fireplace,"A grand, architectural fireplace with marble-like columns and an ornate mantelpiece.",Far right mid-ground.
,Decor,Flowers and Garlands,Brightly colored individual blooms and partially assembled floral decorations lying on the table and held by the women.,On the center table and in the hands of the women.
,Decor,Framed Paintings,"Several paintings in dark frames with red/gold inner borders, depicting portraits and a biblical/mythological scene above the mantel.",Hanging on the back wall and above the fireplace.
,Decor,Brass Chandelier,A multi-tiered brass chandelier hanging from the wooden ceiling.,"Center top, suspended above the table."
,Architecture,Arched Doorways,"Elegant, classical-style stone arches leading into a suite of other rooms.",Back center and far left.
,Architecture,Checkered Floor,A classic Dutch interior feature: a black and white (or dark blue and white) tiled floor in a grid pattern.,Spanning the entire lower half of the frame.
,Architecture,Coffered Ceiling,"A dark, wooden ceiling divided into recessed square or rectangular panels.",Top of the frame.
,Animals,Small Dog,"A brown and white spaniel-type dog, standing alert and looking upward.","Center foreground, on the tiled floor."
,Textiles,White Cloth / Napkin,A crisp white linen cloth or napkin folded on the table.,"Center, draped over the edge of the table."
SK-A-4469.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Dining Table,"A large rectangular table covered with a crisp, white linen tablecloth featuring visible fold lines, indicative of a prosperous household.","Center foreground, extending across most of the lower half."
,Furniture,Spanish-style Chair,A high-backed wooden chair with visible brass decorative studs along the side and top.,"Far right, occupied by the mother and youngest child."
,Food & Drink,Roast Fowl,"A whole roasted bird, likely a chicken or small turkey, presented on a dark pewter platter.","Center of the table, slightly right of the midpoint."
,Food & Drink,Loaves of Bread,"Various small rolls and larger round loaves of white bread, some whole and some broken or cut open.",Distributed across the tabletop on various plates and directly on the cloth.
,Food & Drink,Strawberries in Bowl,"Small red berries contained within a delicate, blue-and-white Wan-Li style Chinese porcelain dish.","Center-left of the table, near the daughter in the center."
,Food & Drink,Lemon,"A bright yellow citrus fruit, partially peeled with the rind curling away, a symbol of wealth and exotic imports.","Right-center of the table, near the metal pitcher."
,Food & Drink,Cherries,A small branch with ripe red cherries and green leaves.,Held in the hand of the youngest child on the far right.
,Tableware,Metal Pitcher (Wine/Beer),"A tall, dark pewter or silver flagon with a handle and lid, likely containing wine or beer.","Center-right of the table, positioned behind the lemon."
,Tableware,Saltcellar,"An ornate, elevated silver salt container with decorative figural supports, holding a mound of white salt.","Center of the table, between the son and the roast fowl."
,Tableware,Pewter Plates,"Flat, dark metal plates (likely pewter) holding bread and serving as individual dining surfaces.",Distributed at various seating positions along the table.
,Tableware,Silver Beaker,"A tall, cylindrical silver drinking vessel with a slightly flared rim.","Left side of the table, in front of the daughter on the far left."
,Nature/Decor,Grapevine,A sprawling vine with large green leaves and dark clusters of grapes growing across the wall.,"Background, spanning the upper horizontal length of the painting."
,Nature/Decor,Window Frame,A vertical architectural element through which the grapevine appears to enter the room.,Far left background.
,Clothing/Accoutrement,Millstone Collars (Ruffs),"Stiff, circular pleated white collars worn by the adults and children, typical of 17th-century Dutch fashion.",Around the necks of all six subjects.
,Clothing/Accoutrement,Lace-edged Caps,Intricate white head coverings worn by the female subjects.,On the heads of the mother and three daughters.
,Textiles,Apron,"A white fabric apron with a decorative border, worn over the dark dress.",Worn by the youngest child on the far right.
,Inscription,Date/Signature,"Faint text on the wall reading ""Anno 1627,"" identifying the year of the work's creation.","Upper right background, on the wall behind the father."
SK-A-4717.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Tobit,"An elderly, blind man with a long white beard, wearing a tattered red robe and tattered slippers. He has his hands clasped in prayer, looking upward in despair.",Seated on the left side of the foreground.
,People,Anna,An elderly woman wearing a striped headscarf and rustic clothing. She holds a small goat and looks toward Tobit with a bewildered expression.,Standing on the right side of the foreground.
,Animals,Kid (Young Goat),"A small, white-furred goat held firmly by Anna. This is the central source of the couple's conflict.","Center-right, held in Anna's arms."
,Animals,Small Dog,"A small, brownish dog with a collar. In Rembrandt's work, it often symbolizes fidelity or the companion from the biblical journey.","Foreground, sitting at Tobit’s feet."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A simple, rustic wooden chair upon which Tobit is seated.",Lower left.
,Furniture,Shelves,"Dark, wooden shelves containing various household items and pots, indicating a humble living space.","Background, behind the main figures."
,Domestic Items,String of Onions,"A vertical cluster of onions hanging near the window, a sign of the couple's meager food supply.","Upper left, hanging next to the window."
,Domestic Items,Birdcage,"A small, square-shaped cage hanging high on the wall.","Top left, above the onions."
,Domestic Items,Fire,"A small, glowing hearth with burning embers and wood, providing a warm contrast to the dim room.",Bottom right corner.
,Domestic Items,Basket,"A large, woven wicker basket placed in a wall niche.","Upper right, behind Anna."
,Domestic Items,Walking Stick,"A simple wooden crutch or staff lying unused, signifying Tobit's blindness and dependence.","Foreground, on the floor next to Tobit’s feet."
,Tools,Reel / Spinning Tool,"A wooden reel used for winding wool, representing Anna’s manual labor to support the family.","Behind Tobit, resting on a chair or stand."
,Architecture,Window,"A tall, narrow window with a wooden shutter. It provides the primary light source for the scene.",Far left side.
SK-A-4779.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Four-poster Bed,"A large, wooden-framed bed with heavy golden-yellow drapery and white linens; it serves as a backdrop for the chaotic scene.",Occupies the far left background.
,Furniture,Drapery / Curtains,"Thick, yellowish-olive fabric curtains hanging from the bed frame, partially drawn.","Left side, draped over the bed structure."
,Furniture,Table,"A wooden table covered with an ornate, patterned carpet or tapestry (likely a Dutch ""Tafelkleed"").","Center foreground, between the figures."
,Figures,Soldier in Red/Gold,"A man in flamboyant red and gold-trimmed attire, leaning back precishly on the bed while holding a glass.","Left-center, seated on the edge of the bed."
,Figures,Recumbent Soldier,"A soldier lying sprawled on the bed with his feet in the air, seemingly in a state of drunken merriment.","Far left, on the bed."
,Figures,Semi-Nude Woman,"A blond woman in a white chemise, her chest exposed, gesturing with her hands in a playful or alarmed manner.","Center-left, seated on the bed next to the soldier in red."
,Figures,Standing Soldier,"A man in a brown doublet and boots, standing on the table/bench to look out a window or high portal.","Upper center-right, standing above the table."
,Figures,Slumped Soldier,"A soldier in dark armor and a brown cloak, slumped over a bench or low chair, looking intoxicated.",Lower right foreground.
,Figures,Woman with Lute,"A woman in a red skirt and white blouse, standing and playing a stringed instrument.",Far right foreground.
,Musical Instruments,Lute,"A large, pear-shaped stringed instrument held by the woman on the right.",Lower right corner.
,Household Objects,Brass Basin/Braziers,"A large, ornate golden-brass bowl or foot-warmer resting on the floor.",Far bottom-left corner.
,Household Objects,Fruit & Dishes,"A silver platter containing grapes and possibly other fruits or oysters, sitting on the table.","Center, on top of the table carpet."
,Weaponry,Sword,"A long sword in its scabbard, held or leaned against by the slumped soldier.","Lower right, clutched by the seated man."
,Weaponry,Helmet/Plumed Hat,A hat with bright orange and white feathers being waved in the air.,"Mid-left, held by the recumbent figure."
,Architecture,Lead-Paned Windows,"Tall, narrow windows with small glass panes set in lead cames, through which light enters.",Upper right background.
,Household Objects,Playing Cards,"Several white playing cards scattered on the floor, suggesting a game ended in a scuffle.","Bottom center, on the floor."
SK-A-4844.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Musical Instruments,Lute,"A large stringed instrument held by a seated woman, symbolizing social harmony and refined pleasure.","Foreground, far left."
,Musical Instruments,Cello (Viola da Gamba),A large stringed instrument leaning against the bedframe; a bow is also visible nearby.,"Background, far right."
,Furniture,Canopy Bed,"A large, ornate bed with blue fabric curtains and golden trim, suggesting a domestic/private setting.","Background, right side."
,Furniture,Toiletries Table,"A table covered with a green cloth and white lace, laden with luxury items and vanity objects.","Foreground, left-center."
,Personal Accessories,Table Mirror,A small mirror (bearing the monogram 'PC') used by the woman in the center to adjust her jewelry.,"Center-left, on the table."
,Personal Accessories,Jewelry (Earrings/Pearls),"Delicate pearls and jewelry being handled or worn, signifying wealth and vanity.","Center, held by the standing woman."
,Hunting Trophy,Dead Hare,A freshly caught hare held up by the ears by one of the returning hunters.,"Center-right, held by the man in the doorway."
,Hunting Trophy,Partridges,"Two dead birds (game) held by the second hunter, symbolizing the ""hunt"" of love.","Center-right, held by the man in the light doublet."
,Art & Decor,Portrait Painting,"A framed oil portrait of a man, hanging high on the wall above the doorway.","Top-center, on the back wall."
,Animals,Hunting Dog,"A slender, light-colored hound (likely a greyhound or scent hound) walking toward the right.","Foreground, bottom right."
,Decor,Candle/Candleholder,"A tall, dark candlestick standing on the floor or leaning against the bed.","Background, right of the center."
,Textiles,Lace Collars,"Intricate, oversized ""millstone"" or lace collars worn by several figures, denoting high social status.","Foreground and midground, on the figures."
SK-A-5114.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Person,Seated Woman,"A woman with curly hair, dressed in a shimmering gold/yellow satin dress with blue ribbons and a white chemise. She is looking toward the viewer.","Center, seated behind the table."
,Furniture,Chair,A dark wood chair with a leather or fabric back and metallic studs (brass tacks) along the edges.,"Left, behind the woman."
,Furniture,Table,A wooden table covered with a decorative red oriental-style carpet or tapestry.,"Bottom right, in front of the woman."
,Musical Instrument,Lute,"A stringed instrument with a rounded, bowl-shaped wooden back (ribbed) and a flat soundboard.","Top of the table, right side."
,Printed Material,Sheet Music (Booklet),An open booklet of musical notation held by the woman. The notes and staves are visible on the pages.,"Center, held in the woman's hands."
,Art Object,Framed Painting,"A small painting within a heavy, ornate gilded (gold) frame. It depicts a mother seated with two children.","Upper right, hanging on the wall."
,Textile,Table Carpet,"A red textile with intricate floral and geometric patterns (likely a Persian or Turkish ""table carpet"").",Draped over the table at the bottom right.
,Book,Bound Book,"A thick, dark-bound volume, possibly a songbook or religious text, lying flat.","Far right edge, on the table next to the lute."
,Architecture,Interior Wall,"A plain, dark grey or neutral-toned wall that provides a backdrop for the scene.","Background, behind the figure and furniture."
,Decoration,Blue Ribbons,Small blue silk ribbons used as decorative fasteners on the sleeves and bodice of the woman's gown.,On the woman's clothing (sleeves and chest).
,Stationery,Inscription/Signature,"The artist's signature (""A. Wolfsen"") and date (""1667"") are subtly painted into the composition.","Bottom left corner, on the chair/background."
SK-C-95.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Peasant Woman,"Seated, head bowed in prayer with hands clasped. Wearing a red bodice and blue skirt.","Center-left, seated at the table."
,Figures,Peasant Man,"Older man, seated with head bowed and eyes closed. Wearing dark, worn clothing.","Center-right, across from the woman."
,Furniture,Dining Table,"A simple rectangular table covered with a white cloth, partially draped over the edge.","Center, between the two figures."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,"A basic, high-backed wooden chair or bench upon which the woman is seated.","Center-left, beneath the woman."
,Still Life,Bowl with Spoon,A shallow ceramic bowl containing a thin meal (likely soup/porridge) with a spoon resting inside.,"On the table, in front of the man."
,Still Life,Loaf of Bread,"A dark, rustic loaf of bread placed directly on the tablecloth.",On the right side of the table.
,Household Item,Earthenware Jug,"A large, rounded ceramic pitcher or jug used for water or ale.","Far left, on a ledge or windowsill."
,Household Item,Birdcage,"A small, arched wire or wicker cage hanging high on the wall.",Upper left wall.
,Household Item,Foot Warmer,"A wooden box with a perforated lid (stoof), used to hold hot coals for warmth.","Bottom right, on the floor."
,Household Item,Ceramic Pot,A small terracotta pot or dish containing coals or scraps.,"Bottom right, next to the foot warmer."
,Textiles,Discarded Clothes,Rumpled red and brown fabrics lying haphazardly on the floor and a wooden board.,Bottom left corner.
,Architecture,Slanted Ceiling/Beams,"Dark, heavy wooden beams and a slanted roof suggesting an attic or humble cottage.",Upper section of the painting.
,Architecture,Window/Light Source,"An unseen window providing a soft, directional light from the left.",Far left (implied light source).
,Decoration,Paper Sketch,"A small, rectangular piece of paper or a simple print pinned to the wall.","Left wall, above the jug."
,Storage,Large Barrel,"A faint, large wooden barrel or vat stored in the shadows of the background.",Upper center-right background.
SK-C-127.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Architecture,Stone Arched Niche,"A faux-stone arched window or niche that frames the subject, creating a trompe l'oeil (trick of the eye) effect.",Frames the entire central scene; defines the foreground boundary.
,Architecture,Bas-Relief / Plinth,A horizontal stone ledge at the bottom containing the inscribed date in Roman numerals.,"Bottom foreground, directly below the figure."
,Text/Inscription,Roman Numerals (MDCLIII),"The date 1653 carved into the stone surface, indicating when the work was completed.",Centered on the lower stone plinth.
,Human Figure,The Spinner,"An elderly woman looking slightly to the right with a focused, gentle expression.","Centered within the arch, leaning over the ledge."
,Clothing,Black Bodice/Vest,"A dark, sleeveless outer garment worn over her inner sleeves.",Torso of the central figure.
,Clothing,Yellow Sleeves,"Bright, mustard-yellow sleeves that provide a primary color pop against the dark background.",Arms of the central figure.
,Clothing,White Chemise/Collar,A simple white fabric visible at the neckline and cuffs.,Neck and wrists of the figure.
,Clothing,Dark Flat Hat,"A wide-brimmed, dark felt hat with a slightly slumped crown.",On the head of the figure.
,Tool,Silk Hand-Reel,"A wooden, cross-shaped tool (niddy-noddy) used for winding silk or fine thread.","Held in the figure's right hand, resting on the ledge."
,Tool,Spool / Bobbin,A small wooden cylinder used to hold the spun thread.,"Held in the figure's left hand, extended toward the viewer."
,Material,Silk Thread,"Fine, almost translucent strands of silk being transferred between the tools.",Stretched between the hands and the reel.
,Interior Detail,Iron Grate / Window,"A dark, vertical barred structure partially visible in the shadows.","Background, behind the figure’s left shoulder."
,Interior Detail,Dim Room / Studio,A heavily shadowed interior space typical of Dou’s chiaroscuro style.,Entire background area behind the figure.
SK-C-140.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Musical Instrument,Virginal,A rectangular keyboard instrument with a painted landscape on the inner lid. The soundboard is decorated with floral motifs.,"Foreground, left-center."
,Person,Young Lady,"A woman playing the virginal, wearing a dark bodice with red patterned sleeves, a white lace collar, and a white cap. She looks toward the viewer.","Center foreground, seated."
,Person,Young Woman / Girl,"A young person with a blonde braided hairstyle and white collar, peering over the top of the virginal.","Center-left, behind the instrument."
,Person,Boy,"A young boy wearing a brown hat, smiling and looking toward the viewer from behind the virginal.","Center, behind the instrument."
,Person,Man (Jan Steen),"A man in a wide-brimmed hat and light-colored doublet, often identified as the artist himself, entering through a doorway.","Right background, in the doorway."
,Animal,Monkey,"A dark-furred monkey perched on top of the virginal's raised lid, looking toward the viewer.","Upper-left, atop the instrument."
,Furniture,Chair,A high-backed chair with red upholstery and gold-toned decorative studs where the lady is seated.,"Center-right, behind the lady."
,Architecture,Doorway / Portal,An architectural wooden door frame with a triangular pediment and an open door.,"Right side, background."
,Interior Decor,Birdcage,"A cylindrical, wooden or bamboo birdcage hanging from the ceiling.","Upper-right, near the ceiling."
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,A checkerboard pattern of alternating black and white marble or stone tiles.,"Foreground and midground, bottom."
,Musical Accessory,Foot Pedal / Bellows,"A small wooden block or pedal-like mechanism near the lady's foot, likely used to provide air for a small organ or simply a footrest.","Lower center-left, under the virginal."
,Fine Art,Landscape Painting,"A pastoral scene painted on the interior lid of the virginal, featuring figures in a park-like setting.","Left side, upper portion of the instrument."
SK-C-147.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Seated Woman,Dressed in a shimmering light-blue and white dress with a yellow skirt; appears to be a lady of the house.,"Middle ground, right of center, seated on a wooden chair."
,Figures,Man (Messenger),"Dressed in an orange/gold doublet and hose, holding a black hat and a letter.","Middle ground, far right, standing in the doorway."
,Figures,Young Child,"A small child in a wide-brimmed hat and a pale dress, holding a thin stick or whip.","Background, far left, standing in the open street doorway."
,Figures,Distant Figures,"Two small, shadowy figures conversing on the street by the canal.","Far background, visible through the open doorway on the left."
,Animals,Lap Dog,"A small, white and brown spaniel-type dog resting calmly.","Middle ground, resting on the lap of the seated woman."
,Animals,Hound,A black and tan hunting dog (beagle or hound type) standing alert.,"Foreground, left-center on the tiled floor."
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,"A classic Dutch ""checkerboard"" floor with alternating large black and white/bluish marble tiles.",Spans the entire foreground and middle ground floor area.
,Architecture,Cross-Mullioned Windows,Large wooden-framed windows with leaded glass panes; one lower shutter is swung open.,Center and upper-center of the back wall.
,Architecture,Open Doorway (Voorhuis),"A tall, arched stone or wood entryway leading directly to the street.","Middle ground, far left."
,Architecture,Canal & Street,A view of a canal (possibly the Kloveniersburgwal) and Dutch gabled houses across the water.,"Far background, seen through the open door and windows."
,Furniture,Wooden Chair,A high-backed chair with a simple wooden frame and yellowish upholstery.,"Middle ground, center-left, positioned against the wall under the window."
,Furniture,Foot Warmer/Platform,"A low wooden platform or ""stoof"" (foot warmer) placed under the woman's feet.","Middle ground, beneath the seated woman's feet."
,Personal Items,Letter,"A small, rectangular white paper (the central narrative element of the painting).","Middle ground, right, held in the man’s hand as he offers it."
,Personal Items,Whip/Stick,"A long, thin toy or stick held upright by the child.","Background, far left, held by the child in the doorway."
,Personal Items,Wide-Brimmed Hat,"A dark, possibly felt hat held by the man.","Middle ground, far right, held in the man's left hand."
,Decor,Framed Paintings,"Two dark, rectangular frames hanging high on the wall, their subjects obscured by shadow.","Upper right corner, mounted on the interior wall."
SK-C-153.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Nude Female Model,"A standing woman with her back to the viewer, stepping onto a chair. Her hair is intricately braided with pearls.",Center-left foreground
,Figures,Artist / Painter,"A seated man focused on a wooden easel, holding a brush and a mahlstick (used to steady the hand).",Right-middle ground
,Figures,Observer / Master,"An older man in a tall hat and ruff collar, leaning in to observe the artist's work with a slight smile.",Center-middle ground
,Furniture,Easel,A wooden tripod-style artist's easel supporting a small canvas or panel.,Right-middle ground
,Furniture,Chair,A wooden side chair with a decorative tapestry-style backrest; the model's foot rests on the seat.,Left foreground
,Clothing,Blue Bodice / Dress,A discarded blue and gold garment lying in a heap on the floorboards.,Bottom center
,Clothing,Leather Slippers,"A pair of simple, dark mules or slippers discarded by the model.",Bottom left
,Studio Equipment,Mahlstick,"A long, thin rod with a padded end held by the artist to support his painting hand.","Right-middle ground, held by artist"
,Studio Equipment,Palette & Brushes,Small tools and pigments visible on the artist's workspace or in his hand.,Right-middle ground
,Architecture,Casement Window,"A leaded-glass window with a wooden frame, providing the primary light source for the scene.",Far left
,Animals,Small Dog / Spaniel,"A small, dark-furred dog peeking out from underneath the white cloth on the chair.","Lower left, on the chair"
,Decor/Prints,Engraving / Sketch,"A small piece of paper pinned to the inside of an open cabinet door, depicting two figures.",Upper left-center
,Architecture,Cabinet / Cupboard,"A dark wooden cupboard with an open door, revealing a small shelf and the pinned sketch.",Upper left-center
,Still Life,White Linen,A draped white cloth or chemise hanging over the seat of the chair.,"Left foreground, on the chair"
,Architecture,Shelving,A wooden shelf high on the wall holding various studio vessels and jars.,Upper right
,Textiles,Green Fabric,A piece of green cloth draped over the edge of the high wall shelf.,Upper right
,Flooring,Wood Planks,Wide wooden floorboards that make up the stage of the studio.,Bottom foreground
SK-C-188.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Large Barrel (Tub),"A large, dark wooden barrel used as a makeshift high-backed chair or settle.","Left foreground, enclosing the father."
,Furniture,Wooden Table,"A simple, low table covered with a plain white cloth.","Center, surrounded by the family."
,Furniture,Wooden Stool,"A sturdy, low wooden bench or stool.","Right foreground, where the mother sits."
,Furniture,Barrel-Stool,A smaller upturned barrel or tub used as a seat.,"Center foreground, where the youngest child sits."
,Figures,Father,"A man with bowed head, holding his hat against his chest in a gesture of reverence.","Left, seated inside the large barrel."
,Figures,Mother,"A woman with hands clasped in prayer, wearing a white headscarf (wimple) and a simple dress.","Right, seated on the stool."
,Figures,Young Children,Three children positioned around the table; the one in the foreground sits with their back to the viewer.,Center foreground and background of the table.
,Figures,Elderly Man,"An older figure with a beard, also bowed in prayer.","Back right, behind the table."
,Figures,Adolescent,"A younger person standing or sitting further back, face partially obscured by a hat.","Back center, behind the table."
,Food/Tableware,White Tablecloth,"A clean, bright white linen cloth that provides the primary highlight of the scene.","Center, draped over the table."
,Food/Tableware,Ceramic Porridge Bowl,A shallow bowl or dish containing a simple pottage or porridge.,"Center, on the table."
,Food/Tableware,Beer Stein (Tankard),"A tall, decorated stoneware mug (likely Westerwald style) with a handle.","Bottom left, on a small wooden riser near the father."
,Clothing,Peasant Hats,Multiple dark felt or wool hats held or worn by the male figures.,Held by the father and center-back figure.
,Architecture,Interior Wall,"A dark, rustic wall with rough textures, barely illuminated by the light source.","Background, spanning the width of the frame."
,Architecture,Ceiling Beams,Heavy wooden support beams visible in the upper portion of the room.,"Top of the painting, running horizontally."
Sk-C-200.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Standing Peasant,"A man in a blue coat and hat, holding a ceramic jug; he appears to be pouring a drink or waiting to be served.","Foreground, Left of center"
,Figures,Seated Woman (Hostess),"A middle-aged woman in a red bodice and white cap, leaning back against a wooden settle.","Center-Left, behind the hearth"
,Figures,Smoking Man,"An older man leaning over the back of the settle, holding a long clay pipe and engaging in conversation.","Center, leaning toward the woman"
,Figures,Pipe-Filling Man,"A man in a dark blue mantle and a large tan hat, seated in a low chair, focused on filling his pipe.","Foreground, Center"
,Figures,Young Girl,"A small child in a blue dress and white bonnet, eating from a bowl.","Foreground, Left corner"
,Figures,Background Group,"Several men gathered around a table; some are standing, others sitting, engaged in drinking and chatting.","Background, Right"
,Animals,Spotted Dog,"A black-and-white dog sitting attentively, watching the young girl eat.","Foreground, Bottom Left"
,Architecture,Large Hearth/Chimney,"A massive, white-plastered chimney breast with a dark wooden mantel, showing signs of soot and age.","Middle ground, Left"
,Architecture,Timber Rafters,"Dark, heavy wooden beams supporting the ceiling, characteristic of a rustic cottage.",Top of the frame
,Architecture,Lead-Framed Window,"A window with small, diamond-shaped or rectangular panes set in lead cames, allowing dim light to enter.","Background, Far Right"
,Furniture,Wooden Settle,"A long, sturdy wooden bench with a high back, used for seating near the warmth of the fire.",Center-Left
,Furniture,Low Wooden Stool,"A simple, three-legged block of wood used by the young girl as a small table for her bowl.","Foreground, Bottom Left"
,Furniture,Three-Legged Chair,"A simple ""turned"" wooden chair with a rush seat, occupied by the man filling his pipe.","Foreground, Center-Right"
,Kitchenware,Ceramic Jug (Steen),"A rounded, earth-toned stoneware jug used for holding beer or cider.","Foreground, held by standing man"
,Kitchenware,Porringer/Bowl,A small ceramic or pewter bowl from which the child is eating soup or porridge.,"Foreground, on the wooden block"
,Kitchenware,Large Cooking Pot,A dark metal cauldron or pot resting on the floor near some scattered wood.,"Foreground, Bottom Right"
,Smoking Tools,Long Clay Pipes,"Traditional ""Gouda"" style pipes with long, thin stems, held by the older man and the man in the chair.",Center and Foreground
,Decor/Misc,Printed Paper,A tattered print or broadside pinned to the dark wooden partition or cupboard.,"Middle ground, Center-Left"
,Decor/Misc,Wicker Baskets/Cages,Woven baskets and a birdcage hanging from the ceiling or stored on high shelves.,Background and Top Right
,Debris,Wooden Clogs (Sabots),A pair of discarded wooden shoes lying haphazardly on the floor.,"Foreground, Bottom Left-Center"
,Debris,Scattered Straw & Wood,"Bits of kindling, straw, and floor litter, emphasizing the unrefined, rustic setting.","Foreground, across the floor"
Sk-C-201.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,People,Peasant Woman,Depicted in a red-sleeved garment with a brown bodice and white headscarf; she looks downward at her drink with a slight smile.,"Foreground, left side of the table."
,People,Peasant Man,"Wearing a dark wide-brimmed hat and a brown jacket over blue sleeves; he leans toward the woman with a friendly, intimate expression.","Background/Midground, right side of the table."
,Containers,Wine Glass (Berquemeyer),"A greenish, flared glass held by the woman with both hands; it likely contains wine or beer.","Center-foreground, on the table being held by the woman."
,Containers,Pewter Tankard (Lidded),"A tall, metallic (pewter) jug with a thumb-lever lid, held by the man by its handle.","Midground, right side, held by the man."
,Food,Waffle,"A rectangular, golden-brown waffle with a distinct grid pattern, appearing crisp.","Foreground-right, sitting on the edge of the table."
,Smoking Accoutrements,Gouda Clay Pipe,"A long, slender white ceramic pipe with a small bowl, used for smoking tobacco.","Foreground-center, lying horizontally on the table next to the waffle."
,Textiles,White Tablecloth / Rag,A crumpled white cloth or napkin tucked under the waffle and trailing off the table.,"Foreground-right, draped over the table corner."
,Furniture,Wooden Table,"A simple, rustic dark wood table with a visible front edge where the artist's signature is often placed.","Foreground, spanning the bottom-center of the frame."
,Architecture,Arched Recess,"A shadowy, rounded alcove or archway in the wall behind the figures, suggesting an inn interior.","Background, behind the figures."
,Architecture,Leaded Glass Window,"A small, square window with a diamond-patterned leaded glass pane.",Background-top right corner.
SK-C-229.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture & Decor,Note / Script,"A piece of paper hanging from the mantelpiece with the proverb's text written on it, serving as the moral anchor of the painting.","Upper right, attached to the chimney/mantelpiece."
,,Table & Carpet,"A sturdy wooden table partially covered by a white linen cloth and a rich, ornate Oriental-style carpet.","Center foreground, extending to the left."
,,Bench / Settle,"A large, high-backed wooden bench where the father is seated comfortably.","Left side, behind the table."
,,Wooden Cupboard,A dark wooden cabinet or buffet holding various household items.,"Center background, behind the seated woman."
,Musical Instruments,Bagpipes,"A traditional wind instrument being played by a young man, adding to the ""noise"" of the scene.","Middle ground, left-center, behind the father."
,,Flute / Pipe,A simple wooden flute being played by a boy wearing a red hat.,"Middle ground, right side of the table."
,Dining & Glassware,Roemer (Wine Glass),"A large, green-tinted glass filled with white wine, held aloft by the father in a toast.","Center-left, held by the man in the orange doublet."
,,Large Jug / Pitcher,"A ceramic or stoneware jug used for pouring drink, held by a young girl.","Lower right-center, held by the standing girl."
,,Earthenware Pitcher,A large orange-toned ceramic jug resting on the floor.,Lower right corner.
,,Spoons,"Several spoons are visible; the baby waves one, and another lies discarded on the floor.",Held by the baby (center) and on the floor (lower right).
,Food Items,Ham / Roast,"A large joint of meat, likely ham, resting on a pewter plate in the center of the table.","Center, on the table."
,,Bread,Various loaves and pieces of bread scattered across the white tablecloth and held by the baby.,"Center, on the table and in the baby's hand."
,Household Items,Frying Pan,"A long-handled metal pan lying haphazardly on the floor, indicating domestic chaos.","Lower left corner, on the floor."
,,Eggshells,"Broken eggshells discarded on the tiles, symbolizing the fragility of life or general messiness.","Lower left, on the floor near the man's foot."
,,Pewter Plate,"A large, dark metal plate resting on the floor, reflecting the light from the window.","Bottom center, on the floor."
,,Vase of Flowers,"A small bouquet of flowers placed atop the cupboard, adding a touch of deceptive ""order"" to the room.","Center background, top of the cupboard."
,Smoking Implements,Long Clay Pipes,"Traditional Dutch ""Gouda"" pipes being used by the children to smoke tobacco, imitating the adults.",Held by the boy in the window (left) and the boy/girl on the right.
,Animals,Spaniel Dog,"A brown and white hunting dog standing alert, looking up toward the table for scraps.","Center foreground, in front of the table."
SK-C-243.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Mother,"A young woman with pale skin, wearing a white headscarf, a dark blue jacket trimmed with white fur, and a reddish-purple skirt. She is shown mid-action, nursing her child.","Seated in the left-center, turned slightly toward the right."
,Figures,Infant,"A chubby baby with light hair, dressed in a yellow/gold tunic. The child looks up toward the mother/viewer while being held.","Held in the mother's lap, centered in the lower-left quadrant."
,Figures,Older Child / Servant,"A young person (likely a young girl or servant) leaning over a table, smiling warmly at the baby.",Behind the table in the center-right background.
,Furniture,High-backed Chair,"A sturdy wooden chair with a red upholstered back and seat, typical of 17th-century Dutch ""Spanish chairs.""",Occupied by the mother on the far left.
,Furniture,Wicker Cradle,A traditional woven bassinet containing a white pillow and a red-and-blue striped blanket draped over the side.,"Foreground, bottom right corner."
,Furniture,Table,"A dark wooden table covered with a cloth, holding various household items.","Mid-ground, right side behind the cradle."
,Lighting,Brass Chandelier,"A multi-armed, ornate hanging light fixture made of polished brass, characteristic of wealthy Dutch interiors.","Hanging from the ceiling, top center."
,Lighting,Candlestick,"A tall, silver or pewter candle holder with a single unlit candle.","Standing on the table, right side."
,Interior Decor,Heavy Curtains,"Large, dark red or brown drapery used to partition the room or frame the bed area.",Draped from the top right and visible in the background center (bed alcove).
,Household Objects,Open Book,"A large book, likely a Bible or prayer book, lying open on the table.","Center of the table, mid-ground right."
,Furniture,Box-Bed (Bedstede),"A recessed sleeping area framed by dark red curtains, common in Dutch homes for warmth.","Deep background, center-right."
,Furniture,Stool,"A simple wooden three-legged stool or ""bakkruk.""",Partially visible in the bottom left corner.
SK-C-1191.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Furniture,Linen Cupboard (Oak Press),"A large, imposing oak cupboard inlaid with ebony. The doors are open, revealing the organized interior where management of the home occurs.","Left side of the room, occupying much of the left foreground."
,Furniture,Cushioned Chair,"A simple wooden chair with a yellow/gold cushion, typical of a well-ordered 17th-century Dutch home.","Far right, against the wall near the staircase."
,Textiles,Linen Stack,"A thick, neat pile of white, freshly pressed linen being handled by the two women.","Center-left, held between the mistress and the maid."
,Containers,Laundry Basket,"A large, woven wicker basket containing more laundry yet to be put away.","Center-foreground, sitting on the floor between the women and the door."
,Containers,Blue and White Bowl,"A piece of Delftware or porcelain with blue patterns, indicating the household's status.","Top-left, resting on the upper ledge of the linen cupboard."
,Architecture,Winding Staircase,"A wooden, spiral-style staircase leading to the upper floor of the house.","Middle-right, positioned behind the doorway and leading upwards."
,Architecture,Checkered Tiled Floor,"A floor made of alternating red and white (or light grey) square tiles, creating a sense of perspective.",Entire lower half of the painting.
,Architecture,Cross-Mullioned Window,"A leaded-glass window that lets soft light into the room, showing the thickness of the exterior wall.","Center-background, set into the wall behind the women."
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A ""doorkijkje"" (view-through) providing a glimpse of the street, a canal, and a Dutch Renaissance-style building across the water.","Right of center, in the background."
,Fine Art,Painting (Perseus),A framed painting depicting a figure often identified as Perseus holding the Gorgon’s head.,"High on the wall, above the doorway on the right."
,Fine Art,Seascape/Landscape Painting,"A smaller, dark-framed painting of a landscape or sea under a cloudy sky.","Center-top, hanging on the wall between the cupboard and the window."
,Human Figures,Mistress of the House,"A woman in a black jacket and red skirt, seen in profile, supervising the laundry.","Far left, standing by the open cupboard door."
,Human Figures,Maidservant / Daughter,"A younger woman in a pink bodice and yellow-over-blue skirt, carrying the stack of linen.","Standing center-left, facing the mistress."
,Human Figures,Child,"A young child (likely a girl) holding a stick, appearing to play or watch the street.",Standing in the doorway in the background.
,Personal Items,Kolf Stick,"A long-handled stick used for the game of ""kolf"" (a precursor to hockey/golf).",Held by the child in the doorway.
SK-C-1215.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Pieter Cnoll,"Senior VOC merchant, dressed in a dark doublet with a lace collar, holding a staff of authority.","Center-left, seated."
,Figures,Cornelia van Nijenrode,"Cnoll’s wife of Japanese-Dutch heritage, wearing a shimmering silk dress with elaborate lace and pearls.","Center-right, seated beside Pieter."
,Figures,Catharina Cnoll,"The elder daughter, wearing a fashionable Dutch dress with fine lace.","Far left, standing."
,Figures,Hester Cnoll,"The younger daughter, seated on a cargo box, dressed similarly to her sister.","Center, seated between her parents."
,Figures,Surapati (Enslaved Man),"An enslaved servant (later an Indonesian national hero), depicted in a simple tunic.","Right background, standing behind Cornelia."
,Figures,Enslaved Woman,An unnamed female servant holding a basket of fruit.,Far right background.
,Furniture/Base,Cargo Box / Chest,"A sturdy wooden shipping crate, symbolizing the source of the family's VOC wealth.","Center-bottom, used as a seat for Hester."
,Textiles,Persian/Oriental Carpet,"A rich, intricately patterned hand-woven rug covering the table and floor.",Foreground and draped over the table on the left.
,Personal Accoutrements,Japanese Fan,"A delicate, decorated folding fan, indicating trade with Japan (Cornelia's heritage).",Held by the daughter Catharina on the left.
,Personal Accoutrements,Staff of Office,"A long, dark wooden cane with a silver or gold top, signifying Cnoll's administrative rank.",Held vertically by Pieter Cnoll in his right hand.
,Jewelry,Pearl Necklace & Earrings,"Large, high-luster teardrop pearls, representing luxury and maritime trade.",Worn by Cornelia and her daughters.
,Pets,Pekinese Dog,"A small, long-haired lapdog, an exotic pet breed from East Asia.",Held by Catharina on the far left.
,Household Items,Ivory Jewelry Box,"A small, finely carved white box, likely of Ceylonese (Sri Lankan) origin.",Held by the daughter Hester in the center.
,Household Items,Fruit Basket,A woven basket filled with various local and exotic fruits.,Held by the enslaved woman on the far right.
,Household Items,Chinese Porcelain Vase,A blue-and-white Wanli-style porcelain vessel containing flowers.,"On the table, left side background."
,Architecture,Tiled Floor,A classic Dutch black-and-white checkered marble floor.,Bottom foreground.
,Environment,VOC Ships,Miniature depictions of merchant vessels in the distant harbor.,"Far background, visible through the architectural opening."
,Environment,Tropical Vegetation,Palm trees and exotic flora visible in the garden/terrace setting.,"Background, behind the figures."
SK-C-1634.jpg,Object Category,Identified Object,Depiction & Description,Spatial Position
,Figures,Three Children,"Three small peasant children huddled together; one appears to be seated on a low block or stool, engaged in play or a quiet domestic activity. They are the focal point of the light.","Lower right quadrant, middle ground"
,Architecture,Open Doorway,"A tall, narrow rectangular opening with a wooden door swung inward. It serves as the primary light source, revealing a glimpse of a bright, yellowish-green exterior.","Middle left, background"
,Architecture,Thatch Roof / Rafters,"A high, sloping ceiling composed of dark, messy straw thatch supported by heavy, irregular wooden beams and timber framing.","Upper half of the canvas, spanning the top"
,Animals,Chickens,"Two or three chickens are depicted; one is prominently pecking at the floor in the light, rendered with brownish-red and dark plumage.","Lower center to left, foreground"
,Equipment,Wagon Wheel,"A large, broken, and weathered wooden wheel lies partially obscured on the floor, symbolizing the dilapidated state of the barn.","Bottom center, foreground"
,Storage,Wooden Doors / Partition,"A set of heavy, dark wooden cupboard doors or a partition wall built into the barn's structure, appearing worn and aged.","Center left, background"
,Household Item,Wooden Barrel,"A large, sturdy wooden barrel sits on its side or end, partially cast in deep shadow near the partition.","Center left, mid-ground"
,Household Item,Wicker Basket / Tub,"A large, wide wooden tub or wicker-style basket sits near the children, likely used for farm chores or storage.","Lower right, foreground/mid-ground"
,Equipment,Feeding Trough,"A long, low wooden rectangular trough or hollowed log lies on the dirt floor, used for animal feed.","Center, middle ground"
,Household Item,Broom / Pitchfork,"Lean, vertical wooden shafts (likely a broom or farm tool) are propped up against the interior walls.","Left of center, background"
,Architecture,Mud/Dirt Floor,"The ground is uneven, rendered in earthy brown tones with visible patches of straw and debris scattered across the surface.",Entire lower third of the canvas
,Materials,Straw/Hay,Loose clumps of hay and dried grass are scattered on the floor and tucked into the rafters above.,"Various locations, scattered on floor and roof"
